Preface

The text contains many clues: obvious clues, not-so-obvious clues, truly
obscure hints which I was shocked to see some readers successfully
decode, and massive evidence left out in plain sight. This is a
rationalist story; its mysteries are solvable, and meant to be solved.

The pacing of the story is that of serial fiction, i.e., that of a TV
show running for a predetermined number of seasons, whose episodes are
individually plotted but with an overall arc building to a final
conclusion.

All science mentioned is real science. But please keep in mind that,
beyond the realm of science, the views of the characters may not be
those of the author. Not everything the protagonist does is a lesson in
wisdom, and advice offered by darker characters may be untrustworthy or
dangerously double-edged.

Author’s introduction

Something, somewhere, somewhen, must have happened differently…

- PETUNIA EVANS married Michael Verres, a Professor of Biochemistry at
  Oxford.

- HARRY JAMES POTTER-EVANS-VERRES grew up in a house filled to the brim
  with books. He once bit a math teacher who didn’t know what a
  logarithm was. He’s read Gödel, Escher, Bach and Judgment Under
  Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases and volume one of The Feynman
  Lectures on Physics. And despite what everyone who’s met him seems to
  fear, he doesn’t want to become the next Dark Lord. He was raised
  better than that. He wants to discover the laws of magic and become a
  god.

- HERMIONE GRANGER is doing better than him in every class except
  broomstick riding.

- DRACO MALFOY is exactly what you would expect an eleven-year-old boy
  to be like if Darth Vader were his doting father.

- PROFESSOR QUIRRELL is living his lifelong dream of teaching Defense
  Against the Dark Arts, or as he prefers to call his class, Battle
  Magic. His students are all wondering what’s going to go wrong with
  the Defense Professor this time.

- DUMBLEDORE is either insane, or playing some vastly deeper game which
  involved setting fire to a chicken.

- MINERVA MCGONAGALL needs to go off somewhere private and scream for a
  while.

Some notes

The opinions of characters in this story are not necessarily those of
the author. What warm!Harry thinks is often meant as a good pattern to
follow, especially if Harry thinks about how he can cite scientific
studies to back up a particular principle. But not everything Harry does
or thinks is a good idea. That wouldn’t work as a story. And the less
warm characters may sometimes have valuable lessons to offer, but those
lessons may also be dangerously double-edged.

If you haven’t visited https://hpmor.com, don’t forget to do that at
some point; otherwise you’ll miss out on the fan art, how to learn
everything Harry knows, and more.

If you don’t just enjoy this fic, but learn something from it, then
please consider blogging it or tweeting it. A work like this only does
as much good as there are people who read it.

1. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and the Methods of Rationality

1. A Day of Very Low Probability

Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a fraction of a
line…

(black robes, falling)

…blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a word.

EVERY inch of wall space is covered by a bookcase. Each bookcase has six
shelves, going almost to the ceiling. Some bookshelves are stacked to
the brim with hardback books: science, maths, history, and everything
else. Other shelves have two layers of paperback science fiction, with
the back layer of books propped up on old tissue boxes or lengths of
wood, so that you can see the back layer of books above the books in
front. And it still isn’t enough. Books are overflowing onto the tables
and the sofas and making little heaps under the windows.

This is the living-room of the house occupied by the eminent Professor
Michael Verres-Evans, and his wife, Mrs Petunia Evans-Verres, and their
adopted son, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.

There is a letter lying on the living-room table, and an unstamped
envelope of yellowish parchment, addressed to Mr H. Potter in
emerald-green ink.

The Professor and his wife are speaking sharply at each other, but they
are not shouting. The Professor considers shouting to be uncivilised.

“You’re joking,” Michael said to Petunia. His tone indicated that he was
very much afraid that she was serious.

“My sister was a witch,” Petunia repeated. She looked frightened, but
stood her ground. “Her husband was a wizard.”

“This is absurd!” Michael said sharply. “They were at our wedding—they
visited for Christmas—”

“I told them you weren’t to know,” Petunia whispered. “But it’s true.
I’ve seen things—”

The Professor rolled his eyes. “Dear, I understand that you’re not
familiar with the sceptical literature. You may not realise how easy it
is for a trained magician to fake the seemingly impossible. Remember how
I taught Harry to bend spoons? If it seemed like they could always guess
what you were thinking, that’s called cold reading—”

“It wasn’t bending spoons—”

“What was it, then?”

Petunia bit her lip. “I can’t just tell you. You’ll think I’m—” She
swallowed. “Listen. Michael. I wasn’t—always like this—” She gestured at
herself, as though to indicate her lithe form. “Lily did this. Because
I—because I begged her. For years, I begged her. Lily had always been
prettier than me, and I’d… been mean to her, because of that, and then
she got magic, can you imagine how I felt? And I begged her to use some
of that magic on me so that I could be pretty too, even if I couldn’t
have her magic, at least I could be pretty.”

Tears were gathering in Petunia’s eyes.

“And Lily would tell me no, and make up the most ridiculous excuses,
like the world would end if she were nice to her sister, or a centaur
told her not to—the most ridiculous things, and I hated her for it. And
when I had just graduated from university, I was going out with this
boy, Vernon Dursley, he was fat and he was the only boy who would talk
to me. And he said he wanted children, and that his first son would be
named Dudley. And I thought to myself, what kind of parent names their
child Dudley Dursley? It was like I saw my whole future life stretching
out in front of me, and I couldn’t stand it. And I wrote to my sister
and told her that if she didn’t help me I’d rather just—”

Petunia stopped.

“Anyway,” Petunia said, her voice small, “she gave in. She told me it
was dangerous, and I said I didn’t care any more, and I drank this
potion and I was sick for weeks, but when I got better my skin cleared
up and I finally filled out and… I was beautiful, people were nice to
me,” her voice broke, “and after that I couldn’t hate my sister any
more, especially when I learned what her magic brought her in the end—”

“Darling,” Michael said gently, “you got sick, you gained some weight
while resting in bed, and your skin cleared up on its own. Or being sick
made you change your diet—”

“She was a witch,” Petunia repeated. “I saw it.”

“Petunia,” Michael said. The annoyance was creeping into his voice. “You
know that can’t be true. Do I really have to explain why?”

Petunia wrung her hands. She seemed to be on the verge of tears. “My
love, I know I can’t win arguments with you, but please, you have to
trust me on this—”

“Dad! Mum!”

The two of them stopped and looked at Harry as though they’d forgotten
there was a third person in the room.

Harry took a deep breath. “Mum, your parents didn’t have magic, did
they?”

“No,” Petunia said, looking puzzled.

“Then no-one in your family knew about magic when Lily got her letter.
How did they get convinced?”

“Ah…” Petunia said. “They didn’t just send a letter. They sent a
professor from Hogwarts. He—” Petunia’s eyes flicked to Michael. “He
showed us some magic.”

“Then you don’t have to fight over this,” Harry said firmly. Hoping
against hope that this time, just this once, they would listen to him.
“If it’s true, we can just get a Hogwarts professor here and see the
magic for ourselves, and Dad will admit that it’s true. And if not, then
Mum will admit that it’s false. That’s what the experimental method is
for, so that we don’t have to resolve things just by arguing.”

The Professor turned and looked down at him, dismissive as usual. “Oh,
come now, Harry. Really, magic? I thought you’d know better than to take
this seriously, son, even if you’re only ten. Magic is just about the
most unscientific thing there is!”

Harry’s mouth twisted bitterly. He was treated well, probably better
than most genetic fathers treated their own children. Harry had been
sent to the best primary schools—and when that didn’t work out, he was
provided with tutors from the endless pool of starving students. Always
Harry had been encouraged to study whatever caught his attention, bought
all the books that caught his fancy, sponsored in whatever maths or
science competitions he entered. He was given anything reasonable that
he wanted, except, maybe, the slightest shred of respect. A Doctor
teaching biochemistry at Oxford could hardly be expected to listen to
the advice of a little boy. You would listen to Show Interest, of
course; that’s what a Good Parent would do, and so, if you conceived of
yourself as a Good Parent, you would do it. But take a ten-year-old
seriously? Hardly.

Sometimes Harry wanted to scream at his father.

“Mum,” Harry said. “If you want to win this argument with Dad, look in
chapter two of the first book of the Feynman Lectures on Physics.
There’s a quote there about how philosophers say a great deal about what
science absolutely requires, and it is all wrong, because the only rule
in science is that the final arbiter is observation—that you just have
to look at the world and report what you see. Um… off the top of my head
I can’t think of where to find something about how it’s an ideal of
science to settle things by experiment instead of arguments—”

His mother looked down at him and smiled. “Thank you, Harry. But—” her
head rose back up to stare at her husband. “I don’t want to win an
argument with your father. I want my husband to, to listen to his wife
who loves him, and trust her just this once—”

Harry closed his eyes briefly. Hopeless. Both of his parents were just
hopeless.

Now his parents were getting into one of those arguments again, one
where his mother tried to make his father feel guilty, and his father
tried to make his mother feel stupid.

“I’m going to go to my room,” Harry announced. His voice trembled a
little. “Please try not to fight too much about this, Mum, Dad, we’ll
know soon enough how it comes out, right?”

“Of course, Harry,” said his father, and his mother gave him a
reassuring kiss, and then they went on fighting while Harry climbed the
stairs to his bedroom.

He shut the door behind him and tried to think.

The funny thing was, he should have agreed with Dad. No-one had ever
seen any evidence of magic, and according to Mum, there was a whole
magical world out there. How could anyone keep something like that a
secret? More magic? That seemed like a rather suspicious sort of excuse.

It should have been a clean case for Mum joking, lying or being insane,
in ascending order of awfulness. If Mum had sent the letter herself,
that would explain how it arrived at the letterbox without a stamp. A
little insanity was far, far less improbable than the universe really
working like that.

Except that some part of Harry was utterly convinced that magic was
real, and had been since the instant he saw the putative letter from the
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

Harry rubbed his forehead, grimacing. Don’t believe everything you
think, one of his books had said.

But this bizarre certainty… Harry was finding himself just expecting
that, yes, a Hogwarts professor would show up and wave a wand and magic
would come out. The strange certainty was making no effort to guard
itself against falsification—wasn’t making excuses in advance for why
there wouldn’t be a professor, or the professor would only be able to
bend spoons.

Where do you come from, strange little prediction? Harry directed the
thought at his brain. Why do I believe what I believe?

Usually Harry was pretty good at answering that question, but in this
particular case, he had no clue what his brain was thinking.

Harry mentally shrugged. A flat metal plate on a door affords pushing,
and a handle on a door affords pulling, and the thing to do with a
testable hypothesis is to go and test it.

He took a piece of lined paper from his desk, and started writing.

Dear Deputy Headmistress

Harry paused, reflecting; then discarded the paper for another, tapping
another millimetre of graphite from his mechanical pencil. This called
for careful calligraphy.

Dear Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall,

Or Whomsoever It May Concern:

I recently received your letter of acceptance to Hogwarts, addressed to
Mr H. Potter. You may not be aware that my genetic parents, James Potter
and Lily Potter (formerly Lily Evans) are dead. I was adopted by Lily’s
sister, Petunia Evans-Verres, and her husband, Michael Verres-Evans.

I am extremely interested in attending Hogwarts, conditional on such a
place actually existing. Only my mother Petunia says she knows about
magic, and she can’t use it herself. My father is highly sceptical. I
myself am uncertain. I also don’t know where to obtain any of the books
or equipment listed in your acceptance letter.

Mother mentioned that you sent a Hogwarts representative to Lily Potter
(then Lily Evans) in order to demonstrate to her family that magic was
real, and, I presume, help Lily obtain her school materials. If you
could do this for my own family it would be extremely helpful.

Sincerely,

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.

Harry added their current address, then folded up the letter and put it
in an envelope, which he addressed to Hogwarts. Further consideration
led him to obtain a candle and drip wax onto the flap of the envelope,
into which, using a penknife’s tip, he impressed the initials H.J.P.E.V.
If he was going to descend into this madness, he was going to do it with
style.

Then he opened his door and went back downstairs. His father was sitting
in the living-room and reading a book of higher maths to show how smart
he was; and his mother was in the kitchen preparing one of his father’s
favourite meals to show how loving she was. It didn’t look like they
were talking to one another at all. As scary as arguments could be, not
arguing was somehow much worse.

“Mum,” Harry said into the unnerving silence, “I’m going to test the
hypothesis. According to your theory, how do I send an owl to Hogwarts?”

His mother turned from the kitchen sink to stare at him, looking
shocked. “I—I don’t know, I think you just have to own a magic owl.”

That should’ve sounded highly suspicious, oh, so there’s no way to test
your theory then, but the peculiar certainty in Harry seemed willing to
stick its neck out even further.

“Well, the letter got here somehow,” Harry said, “so I’ll just wave it
around outside and call ‘letter for Hogwarts!’ and see if an owl picks
it up. Dad, do you want to come and watch?”

His father shook his head minutely and kept on reading. Of course, Harry
thought to himself. Magic was a disgraceful thing that only stupid
people believed in; if his father went so far as to test the hypothesis,
or even watch it being tested, that would feel like associating himself
with that…

Only as Harry stumped out the back door, into the back garden, did it
occur to him that if an owl did come down and snatch the letter, he was
going to have some trouble telling Dad about it.

But—well—that can’t really happen, can it? No matter what my brain seems
to believe. If an owl really comes down and grabs this envelope, I’m
going to have worries a lot more important than what Dad thinks.

Harry took a deep breath, and raised the envelope into the air.

He swallowed.

Calling out Letter for Hogwarts! while holding an envelope high in the
air in the middle of your own back garden was… actually pretty
embarrassing, now that he thought about it.

No. I’m better than Dad. I will use the scientific method even if it
makes me feel stupid.

“Letter—” Harry said, but it actually came out as more of a whispered
croak.

Harry steeled his will, and shouted into the empty sky, “Letter for
Hogwarts! Can I get an owl?”

“Harry?” asked a bemused woman’s voice, one of the neighbours.

Harry pulled down his hand like it was on fire and hid the envelope
behind his back like it was drug money. His whole face was hot with
shame.

An old woman’s face peered out from above the neighbouring fence,
grizzled grey hair escaping from her hairnet. Mrs Figg, the occasional
babysitter. “What are you doing, Harry?”

“Nothing,” Harry said in a strangled voice. “Just—testing a really silly
theory—”

“Did you get your acceptance letter from Hogwarts?”

Harry froze in place.

“Yes,” Harry’s lips said a little while later. “I got a letter from
Hogwarts. They say they want my owl by the 31st of July, but—”

“But you don’t have an owl. Poor dear! I can’t imagine what someone must
have been thinking, sending you just the standard letter.”

A wrinkled arm stretched out over the fence, and opened an expectant
hand. Hardly even thinking at this point, Harry gave over his envelope.

“Just leave it to me, dear,” said Mrs Figg, “and in a jiffy or two I’ll
have someone over.”

And her face disappeared from over the fence.

There was a long silence in the garden.

Then a boy’s voice said, calmly and quietly, “What.”

2. Everything I Believe Is False

Of course it was my fault. There’s no one else here who could be
responsible for anything.

“NOW, just to be clear,” Harry said, “if the professor does levitate
you, Dad, when you know you haven’t been attached to any wires, that’s
going to be sufficient evidence. You’re not going to turn around and say
that it’s a magician’s trick. That wouldn’t be fair play. If you feel
that way, you should say so now, and we can figure out a different
experiment instead.”

Harry’s father, Professor Michael Verres-Evans, rolled his eyes. “Yes,
Harry.”

“And you, Mum, your theory says that the professor should be able to do
this, and if that doesn’t happen, you’ll admit you’re mistaken. Nothing
about how magic doesn’t work when people are sceptical of it, or
anything like that.”

Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall was watching Harry with a bemused
expression. She looked quite witchy in her black robes and pointed hat,
but when she spoke she sounded formal and Scottish, which didn’t go
together with the look at all. At first glance she looked like someone
who ought to cackle and put babies into cauldrons, but the whole effect
was ruined as soon as she opened her mouth. “Is that sufficient,
Mr Potter?” she said. “Shall I go ahead and demonstrate?”

“Sufficient? Probably not,” Harry said. “But at least it will help. Go
ahead, Deputy Headmistress.”

“Just Professor will do,” said she, and then, “Wingardium Leviosa.”

Harry looked at his father.

“Huh,” Harry said.

His father looked back at him. “Huh,” his father echoed.

Then Professor Verres-Evans looked back at Professor McGonagall. “All
right, you can put me down now.”

His father was lowered carefully to the ground.

Harry ruffled a hand through his own hair. Maybe it was just that
strange part of him which had already been convinced, but… “That’s a bit
of an anticlimax,” Harry said. “You’d think there’d be some kind of more
dramatic mental event associated with updating on an observation of
infinitesimal probability—” Harry stopped himself. Mum, the witch, and
even his Dad were giving him that look again. “I mean, with finding out
that everything I believe is false.”

Seriously, it should have been more dramatic. His brain ought to have
been flushing its entire current stock of hypotheses about the universe,
none of which allowed this to happen. But instead his brain just seemed
to be going, All right, I saw the Hogwarts Professor wave her wand and
make your father rise into the air, now what?

The witch-lady was smiling benevolently upon them, looking quite amused.
“Would you like a further demonstration, Mr Potter?”

“You don’t have to,” Harry said. “We’ve performed a definitive
experiment. But…” Harry hesitated. He couldn’t help himself. Actually,
under the circumstances, he shouldn’t be helping himself. It was right
and proper to be curious. “What else can you do?”

Professor McGonagall turned into a cat.

Harry scrambled back unthinkingly, back-pedalling so fast that he
tripped over a stray stack of books and landed hard on his bottom with a
thwack. His hands came down to catch himself without quite reaching
properly, and there was a warning twinge in his shoulder as the weight
came down unbraced.

At once the small tabby cat morphed back up into a robed woman. “I’m
sorry, Mr Potter,” said the witch, sounding sincere, though the corners
of her lips were twitching upwards. “I should have warned you.”

Harry was breathing in short gasps. His voice came out choked. “You
can’t do that!”

“It’s only a Transfiguration,” said Professor McGonagall. “An Animagus
transformation, to be exact.”

“You turned into a cat! A small cat! You violated Conservation of
Energy! That’s not just an arbitrary rule, it’s implied by the form of
the quantum Hamiltonian! Rejecting it destroys unitarity and then you
get FTL signalling! And cats are complicated! A human mind can’t just
visualise a whole cat’s anatomy and, and all the cat biochemistry, and
what about the neurology? How can you go on thinking using a cat-sized
brain?”

Professor McGonagall’s lips were twitching harder now. “Magic.”

“Magic isn’t enough to do that! You’d have to be a god!”

Professor McGonagall blinked. “That’s the first time I’ve ever been
called that.”

A blur was coming over Harry’s vision, as his brain started to
comprehend what had just broken. The whole idea of a unified universe
with mathematically regular laws, that was what had been flushed down
the toilet; the whole notion of physics. Three thousand years of
resolving big complicated things into smaller pieces, discovering that
the music of the planets was the same tune as a falling apple, finding
that the true laws were perfectly universal and had no exceptions
anywhere and took the form of simple maths governing the smallest parts,
not to mention that the mind was the brain and the brain was made of
neurons, a brain was what a person was—

And then a woman turned into a cat, so much for all that.

A hundred questions fought for priority over Harry’s lips and the winner
poured out: “And, and what kind of incantation is Wingardium Leviosa?
Who invents the words to these spells, nursery schoolers?”

“That will do, Mr Potter,” Professor McGonagall said crisply, though her
eyes shone with suppressed amusement. “If you wish to learn about magic,
I suggest that we finalise the paperwork so that you can go to
Hogwarts.”

“Right,” Harry said, somewhat dazed. He pulled his thoughts together.
The March of Reason would just have to start over, that was all; they
still had the experimental method and that was the important thing. “How
do I get to Hogwarts, then?”

A choked laugh escaped Professor McGonagall, as if extracted from her by
tweezers.

“Hold on a moment, Harry,” his father said. “Remember why you haven’t
been going to school up until now? What about your condition?”

Professor McGonagall spun to face Michael. “His condition? What’s this?”

“I don’t sleep right,” Harry said. He waved his hands helplessly. “My
sleep cycle is twenty-six hours long, I always go to sleep two hours
later, every day. I can’t fall asleep any earlier than that, and then
the next day I go to sleep two hours later than that. 10 p.m., 12 a.m.,
2 a.m., 4 a.m., until it goes around the clock. Even if I try to wake up
early, it makes no difference and I’m a wreck that whole day. That’s why
I haven’t been going to a normal school up until now.”

“One of the reasons,” said his mother. Harry shot her a glare.

McGonagall gave a long hmmmmm. “I can’t recall hearing about such a
condition before…” she said slowly. “I’ll check with Madam Pomfrey to
see if she knows any remedies.” Then her face brightened. “No, I’m sure
this won’t be a problem—I’ll find a solution in time. Now,” and her gaze
sharpened again, “what are these other reasons?”

Harry sent his parents a glare. “I am a conscientious objector to child
conscription, on grounds that I should not have to suffer for a
disintegrating school system’s failure to provide teachers or study
materials of even minimally adequate quality.”

Both of Harry’s parents howled with laughter at that, like they thought
it was all a big joke. “Oh,” said Harry’s father, eyes bright, “is that
why you bit a maths teacher in third year.”

“She didn’t know what a logarithm was!”

“Of course,” seconded Harry’s mother. “Biting her was a very mature
response to that.”

Harry’s father nodded. “A well-considered policy for addressing the
problem of teachers who don’t understand logarithms.”

“I was seven years old! How long are you going to keep on bringing that
up?”

“I know,” said his mother sympathetically, “you bite one maths teacher
and they never let you forget it, do they?”

Harry turned to Professor McGonagall. “There! You see what I have to
deal with?”

“Excuse me,” said Petunia, and fled through the back door into the
garden, from which her screams of laughter were clearly audible.

“There, ah, there,” Professor McGonagall seemed to be having trouble
speaking for some reason, “there is to be no biting of teachers at
Hogwarts, is that quite clear, Mr Potter?”

Harry scowled at her. “Fine, I won’t bite anyone who doesn’t bite me
first.”

Professor Michael Verres-Evans also had to leave the room briefly upon
hearing that.

“Well,” Professor McGonagall sighed, after Harry’s parents had composed
themselves and returned. “Well. I think, under the circumstances, that I
should avoid taking you to purchase your study materials until a day or
two before school begins.”

“What? Why? The other children already know magic, don’t they? I have to
start catching up right away!”

“Rest assured, Mr Potter,” replied Professor McGonagall, “Hogwarts is
quite capable of teaching the basics. And I suspect, Mr Potter, that if
I leave you alone for two months with your schoolbooks, even without a
wand, I will return to this house only to find a crater billowing purple
smoke, a depopulated city surrounding it and a plague of flaming zebras
terrorising what remains of England.”

Harry’s mother and father nodded in perfect unison.

“Mum! Dad!”

3. Comparing Reality To Its Alternatives

E. Y.: If J. K. Rowling asks you about this story, you know nothing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

But then the question is—who?

“GOOD Lord,” said the barman, peering at Harry, “is this—can this be—?”

Harry leaned towards the bar of the Leaky Cauldron as best he could,
though it came up to somewhere around the tips of his eyebrows. A
question like that deserved his very best.

“Am I—could I be—maybe—you never know—if I’m not—but then the question
is—who?”

“Bless my soul,” whispered the old barman. “Harry Potter… what an
honour.”

Harry blinked, then rallied. “Well, yes, you’re quite perceptive; most
people don’t realise that so quickly—”

“That’s enough,” Professor McGonagall said. Her hand tightened on
Harry’s shoulder. “Don’t pester the boy, Tom, he’s new to all this.”

“But it is him?” quavered an old woman. “It’s Harry Potter?” With a
scraping sound, she got up from her chair.

“Doris—” McGonagall said warningly. The glare she shot around the room
should have been enough to intimidate anyone.

“I only want to shake his hand,” the woman whispered. She bent low and
stuck out a wrinkled hand, which Harry, feeling confused and more
uncomfortable than he ever had in his life, carefully shook. Tears fell
from the woman’s eyes onto their clasped hands. “My grandson was an
Auror,” she whispered to him. “Died in seventy-nine. Thank you, Harry
Potter. Thank heavens for you.”

“You’re welcome,” Harry said automatically, and then he turned his head
and shot Professor McGonagall a frightened, pleading look.

Professor McGonagall slammed her foot down just as the general rush was
about to start. It made a noise that gave Harry a new referent for the
phrase “Crack of Doom”, and everyone froze in place.

“We’re in a hurry,” Professor McGonagall said in a voice that sounded
perfectly, utterly normal.

They left the bar without any trouble.

“Professor?” Harry said, once they were in the courtyard. He had meant
to ask what was going on, but oddly found himself asking an entirely
different question instead. “Who was that pale man, by the corner? The
man with the twitching eye?”

“Hm?” said Professor McGonagall, sounding a bit surprised; perhaps she
hadn’t expected that question either. “That was Professor Quirinus
Quirrell. He’ll be teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts this year at
Hogwarts.”

“I had the strangest feeling that I knew him…” Harry rubbed his
forehead. “And that I shouldn’t shake his hand.” Like meeting someone
who had been a friend, once, before something went drastically wrong…
that wasn’t really it at all, but Harry couldn’t find words. “And what
was… all of that?”

Professor McGonagall was giving him an odd glance. “Mr Potter… do you
know… how much have you been told… about how your parents died?”

Harry returned a steady look. “My parents are alive and well, and they
always refused to talk about how my genetic parents died. From which I
infer that it wasn’t good.”

“An admirable loyalty,” said Professor McGonagall. Her voice went low.
“Though it hurts a little to hear you say it like that. Lily and James
were friends of mine.”

Harry looked away, suddenly ashamed. “I’m sorry,” he said in a small
voice. “But I have a Mum and Dad. And I know that I’d just make myself
unhappy by comparing that reality to… something perfect that I built up
in my imagination.”

“That is amazingly wise of you,” Professor McGonagall said quietly. “But
your genetic parents died very well indeed, protecting you.”

Protecting me?

Something strange clutched at Harry’s heart. “What… did happen?”

Professor McGonagall sighed. Her wand tapped Harry’s forehead, and his
vision blurred for a moment. “Something of a disguise,” she said, “so
that this doesn’t happen again, not until you’re ready.” Then her wand
licked out again, and tapped three times on a brick wall…

…which hollowed into a hole, and dilated and expanded and shivered into
a huge archway, revealing a long row of shops with signs advertising
cauldrons and dragon livers.

Harry didn’t blink. It wasn’t like anyone was turning into a cat.

And they walked forwards, together, into the wizarding world.

There were merchants hawking Bounce Boots (“Made with real Flubber!”)
and “Knives +3! Forks +2! Spoons with a +4 bonus!” There were goggles
that would turn anything you looked at green, and a line-up of comfy
armchairs with ejection seats for emergencies.

Harry’s head kept rotating, rotating like it was trying to wind itself
off his neck. It was like walking through the magical items section of
an Advanced Dungeons and Dragons rulebook (he didn’t play the game, but
he did enjoy reading the rulebooks). Harry desperately didn’t want to
miss a single item for sale, in case it was one of the three you needed
to complete the cycle of infinite wish spells.

Then Harry spotted something that made him, entirely without thinking,
veer off from the Deputy Headmistress and start heading straight into
the shop, a front of blue bricks with bronze-metal trim. He was brought
back to reality only when Professor McGonagall stepped right in front of
him.

“Mr Potter?” she said.

Harry blinked, then realised what he’d just done. “I’m sorry! I forgot
for a moment that I was with you instead of my family.” Harry gestured
at the shop window, which displayed fiery letters that shone piercingly
bright and yet remote, spelling out Bigbam’s Brilliant Books. “When you
walk past a bookshop you haven’t visited before, you have to go in and
look around. That’s the family rule.”

“That is the most Ravenclaw thing I have ever heard.”

“What?”

“Nothing. Mr Potter, our first step is to visit Gringotts, the bank of
the wizarding world. Your genetic family vault is there, with the
inheritance your genetic parents left you, and you’ll need money for
school supplies.” She sighed. “And, I suppose, a certain amount of
spending money for books could be excused as well. Though you might want
to hold off for a time. Hogwarts has quite a large library on magical
subjects. And the tower in which, I strongly suspect, you will be
living, has a more broad-ranging library of its own. Any book you bought
now would probably be a duplicate.”

Harry nodded, and they walked on.

“Don’t get me wrong, it’s a great distraction,” Harry said as his head
kept swivelling, “probably the best distraction anyone has ever tried on
me, but don’t think I’ve forgotten about our pending discussion.”

Professor McGonagall sighed. “Your parents—or your mother at any
rate—may have been very wise not to tell you.”

“So you wish that I could continue in blissful ignorance? There is a
certain flaw in that plan, Professor McGonagall.”

“I suppose it would be rather pointless,” the witch said tightly, “when
anyone on the street could tell you the story. Very well.”

And she told him of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, the Dark Lord, Voldemort.

“Voldemort?” Harry whispered. It should have been funny, but it wasn’t.
The name burned with a cold feeling, ruthlessness, diamond clarity, a
hammer of pure titanium descending upon an anvil of yielding flesh. A
chill swept over Harry even as he pronounced the word, and he resolved
then and there to use safer terms like You-Know-Who.

The Dark Lord had raged upon wizarding Britain like a wilding wolf,
tearing and rending at the fabric of their everyday lives. Other
countries had wrung their hands but hesitated to intervene, whether out
of apathetic selfishness or simple fear, for whichever was first among
them to oppose the Dark Lord, their peace would be the next target of
his terror.

(The bystander effect, thought Harry, thinking of Latané and Darley’s
experiment which had shown that you were more likely to get help if you
had an epileptic fit in front of one person than in front of three.
Diffusion of responsibility, everyone hoping that someone else would go
first.)

The Death Eaters had followed in the Dark Lord’s wake and in his
vanguard, carrion vultures to pick at wounds, or snakes to bite and
weaken. The Death Eaters were not as terrible as the Dark Lord, but they
were terrible, and they were many. And the Death Eaters wielded more
than wands; there was wealth within those masked ranks, and political
power, and secrets held in blackmail, to paralyse a society trying to
protect itself.

An old and respected journalist, Yermy Wibble, called for increased
taxes and conscription. He shouted that it was absurd for the many to
cower in fear of the few. His skin, only his skin, had been found nailed
to the newsroom wall that next morning, next to the skins of his wife
and two daughters. Everyone wished for something more to be done, and
no-one dared take the lead to propose it. Whoever stood out the most
became the next example.

Until the names of James and Lily Potter rose to the top of that list.

And those two might have died with their wands in their hands and not
regretted their choices, for they were heroes; but for that they had an
infant child, their son, Harry Potter.

Tears were coming into Harry’s eyes. He wiped them away in anger or
maybe desperation, I didn’t know those people, not really, they aren’t
my parents now, it would be pointless to feel so sad for them—

When Harry was done sobbing into the witch’s robes, he looked up, and
felt a little bit better to see tears in Professor McGonagall’s eyes as
well.

“So what happened?” Harry said, his voice trembling.

“The Dark Lord came to Godric’s Hollow,” Professor McGonagall said in a
whisper. “You should have been hidden, but you were betrayed. The Dark
Lord killed James, and he killed Lily, and he came in the end to you, to
your cot. He cast the Killing Curse at you, and that was where it ended.
The Killing Curse is formed of pure hate, and strikes directly at the
soul, severing it from the body. It cannot be blocked, and whomever it
strikes, they die. But you survived. You are the only person ever to
survive. The Killing Curse rebounded and struck the Dark Lord, leaving
only the burnt hulk of his body and a scar upon your forehead. That was
the end of the terror, and we were free. That, Harry Potter, is why
people want to see the scar on your forehead, and why they want to shake
your hand.”

The storm of weeping that had washed through Harry had used up all his
tears; he could not cry again, he was done.

(And somewhere in the back of his mind was a small, small note of
confusion, a sense of something wrong about that story; and it should
have been a part of Harry’s art to notice that tiny note, but he was
distracted. For it is a sad rule that whenever you are most in need of
your art as a rationalist, that is when you are most likely to forget
it.)

Harry detached himself from Professor McGonagall’s side. “I’ll—have to
think about this,” he said, trying to keep his voice under control. He
stared at his shoes. “Um. You can go ahead and call them my parents, if
you want, you don’t have to say ‘genetic parents’ or anything. I guess
there’s no reason I can’t have two mothers and two fathers.”

There was no sound from Professor McGonagall.

And they walked together in silence, until they came before a great
white building with vast bronze doors, and carven words above saying
Gringotts Bank.

4. The Efficient Market Hypothesis

E. Y.: Disclaimer: J. K. Rowling is watching you from where she waits,
eternally in the void between worlds.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

World domination is such an ugly phrase. I prefer to call it world
optimisation.

HEAPS of gold Galleons. Stacks of silver Sickles. Piles of bronze Knuts.

Harry stood there, and stared with his mouth open at the family vault.
He had so many questions he didn’t know where to start.

From just outside the door of the vault, Professor McGonagall watched
him, seeming to lean casually against the wall, but her eyes intent.
Well, that made sense. Being plopped in front of a giant heap of gold
coins was a test of character so pure it was archetypal.

“Are these coins the pure metal?” Harry said finally.

“What?” hissed the goblin Griphook, who was waiting near the door. “Are
you questioning the integrity of Gringotts, Mr Potter-Evans-Verres?”

“No,” said Harry absently, “not at all, sorry if that came out wrong,
sir. I just have no idea at all how your financial system works. I’m
asking if Galleons in general are made of pure gold.”

“Of course,” said Griphook.

“And can anyone coin them, or are they issued by a monopoly that thereby
collects seigniorage?”

“What?” said Professor McGonagall.

Griphook grinned, showing sharp teeth. “Only a fool would trust any but
goblin coin!”

“In other words,” Harry said, “the coins aren’t supposed to be worth any
more than the metal making them up?”

Griphook stared at Harry. Professor McGonagall looked bemused.

“I mean, suppose I came in here with a ton of silver. Could I get a ton
of Sickles made from it?”

“For a fee, Mr Potter-Evans-Verres.” The goblin watched him with
glittering eyes. “For a certain fee. Where would you find a ton of
silver, I wonder?”

“I was speaking hypothetically,” Harry said. For now, at any rate. “So…
how much would you charge in fees, as a fraction of the whole weight?”

Griphook’s eyes were intent. “I would have to consult my superiors…”

“Give me a wild guess. I won’t hold Gringotts to it.”

“A twentieth part of the metal would well pay for the coining.”

Harry nodded. “Thank you very much, Mr Griphook.”

So not only is the wizarding economy almost completely decoupled from
the Muggle economy, no-one here has ever heard of arbitrage. The larger
Muggle economy had a fluctuating trading range of gold to silver, so
every time the Muggle gold-to-silver ratio got more than 5% away from
the weight of seventeen Sickles to one Galleon, either gold or silver
should have drained from the wizarding economy until it became
impossible to maintain the exchange rate. Bring in a ton of silver,
change to Sickles (and pay 5%), change the Sickles for Galleons, take
the gold to the Muggle world, exchange it for more silver than you
started with, and repeat.

Wasn’t the Muggle gold-to-silver ratio somewhere around fifty to one?
Harry didn’t think it was seventeen, anyway. And it looked like the
silver coins were actually smaller than the gold coins.

Then again, Harry was standing in a bank that literally stored your
money in vaults full of gold coins guarded by dragons, where you had to
go in and take coins out of your vault whenever you wanted to spend
money. The finer points of arbitraging away market inefficiencies might
well be lost on them. He’d been tempted to make snide remarks about the
crudity of their financial system…

But the sad thing is, their way is probably better.

On the other hand, one competent hedge fundie could probably own the
whole wizarding world within a week. Harry filed away this notion in
case he ever ran out of money, or had a week free.

Meanwhile, the giant heaps of gold coins within the Potter vault ought
to suit his near-term requirements.

Harry stumped forward, and began picking up gold coins with one hand and
dumping them into the other.

When he had reached twenty, Professor McGonagall coughed. “I think that
will be more than enough to pay for your school supplies, Mr Potter.”

“Hm?” Harry said, his mind elsewhere. “Hold on, I’m doing a Fermi
calculation.”

“A what?” said Professor McGonagall, sounding somewhat alarmed.

“It’s a mathematical thing. Named after Enrico Fermi. A way of getting
rough numbers quickly in your head…”

Twenty gold Galleons weighed a tenth of a kilogram, maybe? And gold was,
what, ten thousand British pounds a kilogram? So a Galleon would be
worth about fifty pounds… The mounds of gold coins looked to be about
sixty coins high and twenty coins wide in either dimension of the base,
and a mound was pyramidal, so it would be around one-third of the cube.
Eight thousand Galleons per mound, roughly, and there were around five
mounds of that size, so forty thousand Galleons or 2 million pounds
sterling.

Not bad. Harry smiled with a certain grim satisfaction. It was too bad
that he was right in the middle of discovering the amazing new world of
magic, and couldn’t take time out to explore the amazing new world of
being rich, which a quick Fermi estimate said was roughly a billion
times less interesting.

Still, that’s the last time I ever mow a lawn for one lousy pound.

Harry wheeled from the giant heap of money. “Pardon me for asking,
Professor McGonagall, but I understand that my parents were in their
twenties when they died. Is this a usual amount of money for a young
couple to have in their vault, in the wizarding world?” If it was, a cup
of tea probably cost five thousand pounds. Rule one of economics: you
can’t eat money.

Professor McGonagall shook her head. “Your father was the last heir of
an old family, Mr Potter. It’s also possible…” The witch hesitated.
“Some of this money may be from bounties placed on You-Know-Who, payable
to his ki—ah, to whoever might defeat him. Or those bounties might not
have been collected yet. I am not sure.”

“Interesting…” Harry said slowly. “So some of this really is, in a
sense, mine. That is, earned by me. Sort of. Possibly. Even if I don’t
remember the occasion.” Harry’s fingers tapped against his trouser-leg.
“That makes me feel less guilty about spending a very tiny fraction of
it! Don’t panic, Professor McGonagall!”

“Mr Potter! You are a minor, and as such, you will only be allowed to
make reasonable withdrawals from—”

“I am all about reasonable! I am totally on board with fiscal prudence
and impulse control! But I did see some things on the way here which
would constitute sensible, grown-up purchases…”

Harry locked gazes with Professor McGonagall, engaging in a silent
staring contest.

“Like what?” Professor McGonagall said finally.

“Trunks whose insides hold more than their outsides?”

Professor McGonagall’s face grew stern. “Those are very expensive,
Mr Potter!”

“Yes, but—” Harry pleaded. “I’m sure that when I’m an adult I’ll want
one. And I can afford one. Logically, it would make just as much sense
to buy it now instead of later, and get the use of it right away. It’s
the same money either way, right? I mean, I would want a good one, with
lots of room inside, good enough that I wouldn’t have to just get a
better one later…” Harry trailed off hopefully.

Professor McGonagall’s gaze didn’t waver. “And just what would you keep
in a trunk like that, Mr Potter—”

“Books.”

“Of course,” sighed Professor McGonagall.

“You should have told me much earlier that sort of magic item existed!
And that I could afford one! Now my father and I are going to have to
spend the next two days frantically hitting up all the second-hand
bookshops for old textbooks, so I can have a decent science library with
me at Hogwarts—and maybe a small science-fiction collection, if I can
assemble something decent out of the bargain bins. Or better yet, I’ll
make the deal a little sweeter for you, okay? Just let me buy—”

“Mr Potter! You think you can bribe me?”

“What? No! Not like that! I’m saying, Hogwarts can keep some of the
books I bring, if you think that any of them would make good additions
to the library. I’m going to be getting them cheap, and I just want to
have them around somewhere or other. It’s okay to bribe people with
books, right? That’s a—”

“Family tradition.”

“Yes, exactly.”

Professor McGonagall’s body seemed to slump, the shoulders lowering
within her black robes. “I cannot deny the sense of your words, though I
much wish I could. I will allow you to withdraw an additional hundred
Galleons, Mr Potter.” She sighed again. “I know that I shall regret
this, and I am doing it anyway.”

“That’s the spirit! And does a ‘mokeskin pouch’ do what I think it
does?”

“It can’t do as much as a trunk,” the witch said with visible
reluctance, “but… a mokeskin pouch with a Retrieval Charm and
Undetectable Extension Charm can hold a number of items until they are
called forth by the one who emplaced them—”

“Yes! I definitely need one of those too! It would be like the super
belt pack of ultimate awesomeness! Batman’s utility belt of holding!
Never mind my Swiss army knife, I could carry a whole tool set in there!
Or books! I could have the top three books I was reading on me at all
times, and just pull one out anywhere! I’ll never have to waste another
minute of my life! What do you say, Professor McGonagall? It’s for the
sake of children’s reading, the best of all possible causes.”

“…I suppose you may add another ten Galleons.”

Griphook was favouring Harry with a gaze of frank respect, possibly even
outright admiration.

“And a little spending money, like you mentioned earlier. I think I can
remember seeing one or two other things I might want to store in that
pouch.”

“Don’t push it, Mr Potter.”

“But oh, Professor McGonagall, why rain on my parade? Surely this is a
happy day, when I discover all things wizarding for the first time! Why
act the part of the grumpy grown-up when instead you could smile and
remember your own innocent childhood, watching the look of delight upon
my young face as I buy a few toys using an insignificant fraction of the
wealth that I earned by defeating the most terrible wizard Britain has
ever known, not that I’m accusing you of being ungrateful or anything,
but still, what are a few toys compared to that?”

“You,” growled Professor McGonagall. There was a look on her face so
fearsome and terrible that Harry squeaked and stepped back, knocking
over a pile of gold coins with a great jingling noise and sprawling
backwards into a heap of money. Griphook sighed and put a palm over his
face. “I would be doing a great service to wizarding Britain, Mr Potter,
if I locked you in this vault and left you here.”

And they left without any more trouble.

5. The Fundamental Attribution Error

E. Y.: J. K. Rowling is staring at you. Can you feel her eyes on you?
She’s reading your mind using her Rowling Rays.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It would’ve required a supernatural intervention for him to have your
morality given his environment.

THE Moke Shop was a quaint little shop (some might even say cute)
ensconced behind a vegetable stall that was behind a magical glove shop
that was on an alleyway off a side street of Diagon Alley.
Disappointingly, the shopkeeper was not a wizened ancient crone; just a
nervous-looking young woman wearing faded yellow robes. Right now she
was holding out a Moke Super Pouch QX31, whose selling point was that it
had a Widening Lip as well as an Undetectable Extension Charm: you could
actually fit big things in it, though the total volume was still
limited.

Harry had insisted on coming here straight away, first thing—insisted as
hard as he thought he could without making Professor McGonagall
suspicious. Harry had something he needed to put into the pouch as soon
as possible. It wasn’t the bag of Galleons that Professor McGonagall had
allowed him to withdraw from Gringotts. It was all the other Galleons
that Harry had surreptitiously shoved into his pocket after falling into
a heap of gold coins. That had been a real accident, but Harry was never
one to discard an opportunity… though it’d really been more of a
spur-of-the-moment thing. Ever since Harry had been awkwardly carrying
the allowed bag of Galleons next to his trouser pocket, so that any
jingling would seem to come from the right place.

This still left the question of how he was actually going to get the
other coins into the pouch without getting caught. The golden coins
might have been his, but they were still stolen—self-stolen?
Auto-thieved?

Harry looked up from the Moke Super Pouch QX31 on the counter in front
of him. “Can I try this for a bit? To make sure it works, um, reliably?”
He widened his eyes in an expression of boyish, playful innocence.

Sure enough, after ten repetitions of putting the coin-bag into the
pouch, reaching in, whispering “bag of gold”, and taking it out,
Professor McGonagall took a step away and began examining some of the
other items in the shop, and the shopkeeper turned her head to watch.

Harry dropped the bag of gold into the mokeskin pouch with his left
hand; his right hand came out of his pocket tightly holding some of the
gold coins, reached into the mokeskin pouch, dropped the loose Galleons,
and (with a whisper of “bag of gold”) retrieved the original bag. Then
the bag went back into his left hand, to be dropped in again, and
Harry’s right hand went back into his pocket…

Professor McGonagall looked back at him once, but Harry managed to avoid
freezing or flinching, and she didn’t seem to notice anything. Though
you never did quite know, with the adults that had a sense of humour. It
took three iterations to get the job done, and Harry guessed he’d
managed to steal maybe thirty Galleons from himself.

Harry reached up, wiped a bit of sweat from his forehead, and exhaled.
“I’d like this one, please.”

Fifteen Galleons lighter (twice the price of a wizard’s wand,
apparently) and one Moke Super Pouch QX31 heavier, Harry and Professor
McGonagall pushed their way out of the door. The door formed a hand and
waved goodbye to them as they left, extruding its arm in a way that made
Harry feel a bit queasy.

And then, unfortunately…

“Are you really Harry Potter?” whispered the old man, one huge tear
sliding down his cheek. “You wouldn’t lie about that, would you? Only
I’d heard rumours that you didn’t really survive the Killing Curse and
that’s why no-one ever heard from you again.”

…it seemed that Professor McGonagall’s disguise spell was less than
perfectly effective against more experienced magical practitioners.

Professor McGonagall had laid a hand on Harry’s shoulder and yanked him
into the nearest alleyway the moment she’d heard “Harry Potter?” The old
man had followed, but at least it looked like no-one else had heard.

Harry considered the question. Was he really Harry Potter? “I only know
what other people have told me,” Harry said. “It’s not like I remember
being born.” His hand brushed his forehead. “I’ve had this scar as long
as I remember, and I’ve been told my name was Harry Potter as long as I
remember. But,” Harry said thoughtfully, “if there’s already sufficient
cause to postulate a conspiracy, there’s no reason why they wouldn’t
just find another orphan and raise him to believe that he was Harry
Potter—”

Professor McGonagall drew her hand over her face in exasperation. “You
look just about exactly like your father, James, the year he first
attended Hogwarts. And I can attest on the basis of personality alone
that you are related to the Scourge of Gryffindor.”

“She could be in on it too,” Harry observed.

“No,” quavered the old man. “She’s right. You have your mother’s eyes.”

“Hmm,” Harry frowned. “I suppose you could be in on it too—”

“Enough, Mr Potter.”

The old man raised up a hand as if to touch Harry, but then let it fall.
“I’m just glad that you’re alive,” he murmured. “Thank you, Harry
Potter. Thank you for what you did… I’ll leave you alone now.”

And his cane slowly tapped away, out the alley and down the main street
of Diagon Alley.

The Professor looked around, her expression tense and grim. Harry
automatically looked around himself. But the alley seemed empty of all
but old leaves, and from the mouth leading out into Diagon Alley, only
swiftly striding passers-by could be seen.

Finally Professor McGonagall seemed to relax. “That was not well done,”
she said in a low voice. “I know you’re not used to this, Mr Potter, but
people do care about you. Please be kind to them.”

Harry looked down at his shoes. “They shouldn’t,” he said with a tinge
of bitterness. “Care about me, I mean.”

“You saved them from You-Know-Who,” said Professor McGonagall. “How
should they not care?”

Harry looked up at the witch-lady’s strict expression beneath her
pointed hat, and sighed. “I suppose there’s no chance that if I said
fundamental attribution error you’d have any idea what that meant.”

“No,” said the Professor in her precise Scottish accent, “but please
explain, Mr Potter, if you would be so kind.”

“Well…” Harry said, trying to figure out how to describe that particular
bit of Muggle science. “Suppose you come into work and see your
colleague kicking his desk. You think, ‘what an angry person he must
be’. Your colleague is thinking about how someone bumped him into a wall
on the way to work and then shouted at him. Anyone would be angry at
that, he thinks. When we look at others we see personality traits that
explain their behaviour, but when we look at ourselves we see
circumstances that explain our behaviour. People’s stories make internal
sense to them, from the inside, but we don’t see people’s histories
trailing behind them in the air. We only see them in one situation, and
we don’t see what they would be like in a different situation. So the
fundamental attribution error is that we explain by permanent, enduring
traits what would be better explained by circumstance and context.”
There were some elegant experiments which confirmed this, but Harry
wasn’t about to go into them.

The witch’s eyebrows drew up beneath her hat’s brim. “I think I
understand…” Professor McGonagall said slowly. “But what does that have
to do with you?”

Harry kicked the brick wall of the alley hard enough to make his foot
hurt. “People think that I saved them from You-Know-Who because I’m some
kind of great warrior of the Light.”

“The one with power to vanquish the Dark Lord…” murmured the witch, a
strange irony leavening her voice.

“Yes,” Harry said, annoyance and frustration warring in him, “like I
destroyed the Dark Lord because I have some kind of permanent, enduring
destroy-the-Dark-Lord trait. I was fifteen months old at the time! I
don’t know what happened, but I would suppose it had something to do
with, as the saying goes, contingent environmental circumstances. And
certainly nothing to do with my personality. People don’t care about me,
they aren’t even paying attention to me, they want to shake hands with a
bad explanation.” Harry paused, and looked at McGonagall. “Do you know
what really happened?”

“I have formed an idea…” said Professor McGonagall. “After meeting you,
that is.”

“Yes?”

“You triumphed over the Dark Lord by being more awful than he was, and
survived the Killing Curse by being more terrible than Death.”

“Ha. Ha. Ha.” Harry kicked the wall again.

Professor McGonagall chuckled. “Let’s get you to Madam Malkin’s next. I
fear your Muggle clothing may be attracting attention.”

They ran into two more well-wishers along the way.

Madam Malkin’s Robes had a genuinely boring shop front, red ordinary
brick, and glass windows showing plain black robes within. Not robes
that shone or changed or spun, or radiated strange rays that seemed to
go right through your shirt and tickle you. Just plain black robes, that
was all you could see through the window. The door was propped wide
open, as if to advertise that there were no secrets here and nothing to
hide.

“I’m going to go off for a few minutes while you get fitted for your
robes,” said Professor McGonagall. “Will you be all right with that,
Mr Potter?”

Harry nodded. He hated clothes shopping with a fiery passion and
couldn’t blame the older witch for feeling the same way.

Professor McGonagall’s wand came out of her sleeve, tapped Harry’s head
lightly. “And as you’ll need to be clear to Madam Malkin’s senses, I am
removing the Obfuscation.”

“Uh…” Harry said. That did worry him a little; he still wasn’t used to
the ‘Harry Potter’ thing.

“I went to Hogwarts with Madam Malkin,” McGonagall said. “Even then, she
was one of the most composed people I knew. She wouldn’t turn a hair if
You-Know-Who himself walked into her shop.” McGonagall’s voice was
reminiscent, and very approving. “Madam Malkin won’t bother you, and she
won’t let anyone else bother you.”

“Where are you going?” Harry inquired. “Just in case, you know,
something does happen.”

McGonagall gave Harry a hard look. “I am going there,” she said,
pointing at a building across the street which showed the sign of a
wooden keg, “and buying a drink, which I desperately need. You are to
get fitted for your robes, nothing else. I will come back to check up on
you shortly, and I expect to find Madam Malkin’s shop still standing and
not in any way on fire.”

Madam Malkin was a bustling old woman who didn’t say a word about Harry
when she saw the scar on his forehead, and she shot a sharp look at an
assistant when that girl seemed about to say something. Madam Malkin got
out a set of animated, writhing bits of cloth that seemed to serve as
tape measures and set to work examining the medium of her art.

Next to Harry, a pale young boy with a pointed face and awesomecool
blonde-white hair seemed to be going through the final stages of a
similar process. One of Malkin’s two assistants was examining the
white-haired boy and the chequerboard-gridded robe he was wearing;
occasionally she would tap a corner of the robe with her wand, and the
robe would loosen or tighten.

“Hello,” said the boy. “Hogwarts, too?”

Harry could predict where this conversation was about to go, and he
decided in a split second of frustration that enough was enough.

“Good heavens,” whispered Harry, “it couldn’t be.” He let his eyes
widen. “Your… name, sir?”

“Draco Malfoy,” said Draco Malfoy, looking slightly puzzled.

“It is you! Draco Malfoy. I—I never thought I’d be so honoured, sir.”
Harry wished he could make tears come out of his eyes. The others
usually started crying at around this point.

“Oh,” said Draco, sounding a little confused. Then his lips stretched in
a smug smile. “It’s good to meet someone who knows his place.”

One of the assistants, the one who’d seemed to recognise Harry, made a
muffled choking sound.

Harry burbled on. “I’m delighted to meet you, Mr Malfoy. Just
unutterably delighted. And to be attending Hogwarts in your very year!
It makes my heart swoon.”

Oops. That last part might have sounded a little odd, like he was
flirting with Draco or something.

“And I am pleased to learn that I shall be treated with the respect due
to the family of Malfoy,” the other boy lobbed back, accompanied by a
smile such as the highest of kings might bestow upon the least of his
subjects, if that subject were honest, though poor.

Eh… Damn, Harry was having trouble thinking up his next line. Well,
everyone did want to shake the hand of Harry Potter, so—“When my clothes
are fitted, sir, might you deign to shake my hand? I should wish nothing
more to put the capper upon this day, nay, this month, indeed, my whole
lifetime.”

The white-blonde-haired boy glared in return. “And what have you done
for the Malfoys that entitles you to such a favour?”

Oh, I am so totally trying this routine on the next person who wants to
shake my hand. Harry bowed his head. “No, no, sir, I understand. I’m
sorry for asking. I should be honoured to clean your boots, rather.”

“Indeed,” snapped the other boy. His stern face lightened somewhat.
“Tell me, what House do you think you might be sorted into? I’m bound
for Slytherin House, of course, like my father Lucius before me. And for
you, I’d guess House Hufflepuff, or possibly House Elf.”

Harry grinned sheepishly. “Professor McGonagall says that I’m the most
Ravenclaw person she’s ever seen or heard tell of in legend, so much so
that Rowena herself would tell me to get out more, whatever that means,
and that I’ll undoubtedly end up in Ravenclaw House if the hat isn’t
screaming too loudly for the rest of us to make out any words, end
quote.”

“Wow,” said Draco Malfoy, sounding slightly impressed. The boy gave a
sort of wistful sigh. “Your flattery was great, or I thought so,
anyway—you’d do well in Slytherin House, too. Usually it’s only my
father who gets that sort of grovelling. I’m hoping the other Slytherins
will suck up to me now I’m at Hogwarts… I guess this is a good sign,
then.”

Harry coughed. “Actually, sorry, I’ve got no idea who you are really.”

“Oh come on!” the boy said with fierce disappointment. “Why’d you go and
do that, then?” Draco’s eyes widened with sudden suspicion. “And how do
you not know about the Malfoys? And what are those clothes you’re
wearing? Are your parents Muggles?”

“Two of my parents are dead,” Harry said. His heart twinged. When he put
it that way—“My other two parents are Muggles, and they’re the ones that
raised me.”

“What?” said Draco. “Who are you?”

“Harry Potter, pleased to meet you.”

“Harry Potter?” gasped Draco. “The Harry—” and the boy cut off abruptly.

There was a brief silence.

Then, with bright enthusiasm, “Harry Potter? The Harry Potter? Gosh,
I’ve always wanted to meet you!”

Draco’s attendant emitted a sound like she was strangling but kept on
with her work, lifting Draco’s arms to carefully remove the chequered
robe.

“Shut up,” Harry suggested.

“Can I have your autograph? No, wait, I want a picture with you first!”

“Shutupshutupshutup.”

“I’m just so delighted to meet you!”

“Burst into flames and die.”

“But you’re Harry Potter, the glorious saviour of the wizarding world!
Everyone’s hero, Harry Potter! I’ve always wanted to be just like you
when I grow up so I can—”

Draco cut off the words in mid-sentence, his face freezing in absolute
horror.

Tall, white-haired, coldly elegant in black robes of the finest quality.
One hand gripping a silver-handled cane which took on the character of a
deadly weapon just by being in that hand. His eyes regarded the room
with the dispassionate quality of an executioner, a man to whom killing
was not painful, or even deliciously forbidden, but just a routine
activity like breathing.

That was the man who had, just that moment, strolled in through the open
door.

“Draco,” said the man, low and very angry, “what are you saying?”

In one split second of sympathetic panic, Harry formulated a rescue
plan.

“Lucius Malfoy!” gasped Harry Potter. “The Lucius Malfoy?”

One of Malkin’s assistants had to turn away and face the wall.

Coolly murderous eyes regarded him. “Harry Potter.”

“I am so, so honoured to meet you!”

The dark eyes widened, shocked surprise replacing deadly threat.

“Your son has been telling me all about you,” Harry gushed on, hardly
even knowing what was coming out of his mouth but just talking as fast
as possible. “But of course I knew about you before then, everyone knows
about you, the great Lucius Malfoy! The most honoured laureate of all
the House of Slytherin, I’ve been thinking about trying to get into
Slytherin House myself just because I heard you were in it as a child—”

“What are you saying, Mr Potter?” came a near-scream from outside the
shop, and Professor McGonagall burst in a second later.

There was such pure horror on her face that Harry’s mouth opened
automatically, and then blocked on nothing-to-say.

“Professor McGonagall!” cried Draco. “Is it really you? I’ve heard so
much about you from my father, I’ve been thinking of trying to get
Sorted into Gryffindor so I can—”

“What?” bellowed Lucius Malfoy and Professor McGonagall in perfect
unison, standing side-by-side. Their heads swivelled to look at each
other in duplicate motions, and then the two recoiled from one another
as though performing a synchronised dance.

There was a sudden flurry of action as Lucius seized Draco and dragged
him out of the shop.

And then there was silence.

In Professor McGonagall’s left hand lay a small drinking-glass, tilted
over to one side in the forgotten rush, now slowly dripping drops of
alcohol into the tiny puddle of red wine that had appeared on the floor.

Professor McGonagall strode forward into the shop until she was opposite
Madam Malkin.

“Madam Malkin,” said Professor McGonagall, her voice calm. “What has
been happening here?”

Madam Malkin looked back silently for four seconds, and then cracked up.
She fell against the wall, wheezing out laughter, and that set off both
of her assistants, one of whom fell to her hands and knees on the floor,
giggling hysterically.

Professor McGonagall slowly turned to look at Harry, her expression
chilly. “I leave you alone for six minutes. Six minutes, Mr Potter, by
the very clock.”

“I was only joking around,” Harry protested, as the sounds of hysterical
laughter went on nearby.

“Draco Malfoy said in front of his father that he wanted to be sorted
into Gryffindor! Joking around isn’t enough to do that!” Professor
McGonagall paused, visibly taking breaths. “What part of ‘get fitted for
robes’ sounded to you like please cast a Confundus Charm on the entire
universe!”

“He was in a situational context where those actions made internal
sense—”

“No. Don’t explain. I don’t want to know what happened in here, ever.
Whatever dark power inhabits you, it is contagious, and I don’t want to
end up like poor Draco Malfoy, poor Madam Malkin and her two poor
assistants.”

Harry sighed. It was clear that Professor McGonagall wasn’t in a mood to
listen to reasonable explanations. He looked at Madam Malkin, who was
still wheezing against the wall, and Malkin’s two assistants, who had
now both fallen to their knees, and finally down at his own
tape-measure-draped body.

“I’m not quite done being fitted for clothes,” Harry said kindly. “Why
don’t you go back and have another drink?”

6. The Planning Fallacy

E. Y.: Blah blah disclaimer blah blah Rowling blah blah ownership.

The “Aftermath” section of this chapter is part of the story, not omake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You think your day was surreal? Try mine.

SOME children would have waited until after their first trip to Diagon
Alley.

“Bag of element 79,” Harry said, and withdrew his hand, empty, from the
mokeskin pouch.

Most children would have at least waited to get their wands first.

“Bag of okane,” said Harry. The heavy bag of gold popped up into his
hand.

Harry withdrew the bag, then plunged it again into the mokeskin pouch.
He took out his hand, put it back in, and said, “Bag of tokens of
economic exchange.” That time his hand came out empty.

“Give me back the bag that I just put in.” Out came the bag of gold once
more.

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres had got his hands on at least one
magical item. Why wait?

“Professor McGonagall,” Harry said to the bemused witch strolling beside
him, “can you give me two words, one word for gold, and one word for
something else that isn’t money, in a language that I wouldn’t know? But
don’t tell me which is which.”

“Ahava and zahav,” said Professor McGonagall. “That’s Hebrew, and the
other word means love.”

“Thank you, Professor. Bag of ahava.” Empty.

“Bag of zahav.” And it popped up into his hand.

“Zahav is gold?” Harry questioned, and Professor McGonagall nodded.

Harry thought over his collected experimental data. It was only the most
crude and preliminary sort of effort, but it was enough to support at
least one conclusion:

“Aaaaaaarrrgh this doesn’t make any sense!”

The witch beside him lifted a lofty eyebrow. “Problems, Mr Potter?”

“I just falsified every single hypothesis I had! How can it know that
‘bag of 115 Galleons’ is okay but not ‘bag of 90 plus 25 Galleons’? It
can count but it can’t add? It can understand nouns, but not some noun
phrases that mean the same thing? The person who made this probably
didn’t speak Japanese and I don’t speak any Hebrew, so it’s not using
their knowledge, and it’s not using my knowledge—” Harry waved a hand
helplessly. “The rules seem sorta consistent but they don’t mean
anything! I’m not even going to ask how a pouch ends up with voice
recognition and natural language understanding when the best Artificial
Intelligence programmers can’t get the fastest supercomputers to do it
after thirty-five years of hard work,” Harry gasped for breath, “but
what is going on?”

“Magic,” said Professor McGonagall.

“That’s just a word! Even after you tell me that, I can’t make any new
predictions! It’s exactly like saying ‘phlogiston’ or ‘élan vital’ or
‘emergence’ or ‘complexity’!”

The black-robed witch laughed aloud. “But it is magic, Mr Potter.”

Harry slumped over a little. “With respect, Professor McGonagall, I’m
not quite sure you understand what I’m trying to do here.”

“With respect, Mr Potter, I’m quite sure I don’t. Unless—this is just a
guess, mind—you’re trying to take over the world?”

“No! I mean yes—well, no!”

“I think I should perhaps be alarmed that you have trouble answering the
question.”

Harry glumly considered the Dartmouth Conference on Artificial
Intelligence in 1956. It had been the first conference ever on the
topic, the one that had coined the phrase “Artificial Intelligence”.
They had identified key problems such as making computers understand
language, learn, and improve themselves. They had suggested, in perfect
seriousness, that significant advances on these problems might be made
by ten scientists working together for two months.

No. Chin up. You’re just starting on the problem of unravelling all the
secrets of magic. You don’t actually know whether it’s going to be too
difficult to do in two months.

“And you really haven’t heard of other wizards asking these sorts of
questions or doing this sort of scientific experimenting?” Harry asked
again. It just seemed so obvious to him.

Then again, it’d taken more than two hundred years after the invention
of the scientific method before any Muggle scientists had thought to
systematically investigate which sentences a human four-year-old could
or couldn’t understand. The developmental psychology of linguistics
could’ve been discovered in the eighteenth century, in principle, but
no-one had even thought to look until the twentieth. So you couldn’t
really blame the much smaller wizarding world for not investigating the
Retrieval Charm.

Professor McGonagall pursed her lips, then shrugged. “I’m still not sure
what you mean by ‘scientific experimenting’, Mr Potter. As I said, I’ve
seen Muggle-born students try to get Muggle science to work inside
Hogwarts, and people invent new Charms and Potions every year.”

Harry shook his head. “Technology isn’t the same thing as science at
all. And trying lots of different ways to do something isn’t the same as
experimenting to figure out the rules.” There were plenty of people
who’d tried to invent flying machines by trying out lots of
things-with-wings, but only the Wright Brothers had built a wind tunnel
to measure lift… “Um, how many Muggle-raised children do you get at
Hogwarts every year?”

“Perhaps ten or so?”

Harry missed a step and almost tripped over his own feet. “Ten?”

The Muggle world had a population of six billion and counting. If you
were one in a million, there were seven of you in London and a thousand
more in China. It was inevitable that the Muggle population would
produce some eleven-year-olds who could do calculus—Harry knew he wasn’t
the only one. He’d met other prodigies in mathematical competitions. In
fact he’d been thoroughly trounced by competitors who probably spent
literally all day practising maths problems and who’d never read a
science-fiction book and who would burn out completely before puberty
and never amount to anything in their future lives because they’d just
practised known techniques instead of learning to think creatively.
(Harry was something of a sore loser.)

But… in the wizarding world…

Ten Muggle-raised children per year, who’d all ended their Muggle
educations at the age of eleven? And Professor McGonagall might be
biased, but she had claimed that Hogwarts was the largest and most
eminent wizarding school in the world… and it only educated up to the
age of seventeen.

Professor McGonagall undoubtedly knew every last detail of how you went
about turning into a cat. But she seemed to have literally never heard
of the scientific method. To her it was just Muggle magic. And she
didn’t even seem curious about what secrets might be hiding behind the
natural language understanding of the Retrieval Charm.

That left two possibilities, really.

Possibility one: Magic was so incredibly opaque, convoluted, and
impenetrable, that even though wizards and witches had tried their best
to understand, they’d made little or no progress and eventually given
up; and Harry would do no better.

Or…

Harry cracked his knuckles in determination, but they only made a quiet
sort of clicking sound, rather than echoing ominously off the walls of
Diagon Alley.

Possibility two: He’d be taking over the world.

Eventually. Perhaps not right away.

That sort of thing did sometimes take longer than two months. Muggle
science hadn’t gone to the moon in the first week after Galileo.

But Harry still couldn’t stop the huge smile that was stretching his
cheeks so wide they were starting to hurt.

Harry had always been frightened of ending up as one of those child
prodigies that never amounted to anything and spent the rest of their
lives boasting about how far ahead they’d been at age ten. But then most
adult geniuses never amounted to anything either. There were probably a
thousand people as intelligent as Einstein for every actual Einstein in
history. Because those other geniuses hadn’t got their hands on the one
thing you absolutely needed to achieve greatness. They’d never found an
important problem.

You’re mine now, Harry thought at the walls of Diagon Alley, and all the
shops and items, and all the shopkeepers and customers; and all the
lands and people of wizarding Britain, and all the wider wizarding
world; and the entire greater universe of which Muggle scientists
understood so much less than they believed. I, Harry James
Potter-Evans-Verres, do now claim this territory in the name of Science.

Lightning and thunder completely failed to flash and boom in the
cloudless skies.

“What are you smiling about?” inquired Professor McGonagall, warily and
wearily.

“I’m wondering if there’s a spell to make lightning flash in the
background whenever I make an ominous resolution,” explained Harry. He
was carefully memorising the exact words of his ominous resolution so
that future history books would get it right.

“I have the distinct feeling that I ought to be doing something about
this,” sighed Professor McGonagall.

“Ignore it, it’ll go away. Ooh, shiny!” Harry put his thoughts of world
conquest temporarily on hold and skipped over to a shop with an open
display, and Professor McGonagall followed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had now bought his potions ingredients and cauldron, and, oh, a
few more things. Items that seemed like good things to carry in Harry’s
Bag of Holding (aka Moke Super Pouch QX31 with Undetectable Extension
Charm, Retrieval Charm, and Widening Lip). Smart, sensible purchases.

Harry genuinely didn’t understand why Professor McGonagall was looking
so suspicious.

Right now, Harry was in a shop expensive enough to display in the
twisting main street of Diagon Alley. The shop had an open front with
merchandise laid out on slanted wooden rows, guarded only by slight grey
glows and a young-looking salesgirl in a much-shortened version of
witch’s robes that exposed her knees and elbows.

Harry was examining the wizarding equivalent of a first-aid kit, the
Emergency Healing Pack Plus. There were two self-tightening tourniquets.
A syringe of what looked like liquid fire, which was supposed to
drastically slow circulation in a treated area while maintaining
oxygenation of the blood for up to three minutes, if you needed to
prevent a poison from spreading through the body. White cloth that could
be wrapped over a part of the body to temporarily numb pain. Plus any
number of other items that Harry totally failed to comprehend, like the
“Dementor Exposure Treatment”, which looked and smelled like ordinary
chocolate. Or the “Bafflesnaffle Counter”, which looked like a small
quivering egg and carried a placard showing how to jam it up someone’s
nostril.

“A definite buy at five Galleons, wouldn’t you agree?” Harry said to
Professor McGonagall, and the teenage salesgirl hovering nearby nodded
eagerly.

Harry had expected the Professor to make some sort of approving remark
about his prudence and preparedness.

What he was getting instead could only be described as the Evil Eye.

“And just why,” Professor McGonagall said with heavy scepticism, “do you
expect to need a healer’s kit, young man?” (After the unfortunate
incident at the Potions shop, Professor McGonagall was trying to avoid
saying “Mr Potter” while anyone else was nearby.)

Harry’s mouth opened and closed. “I don’t expect to need it! It’s just
in case!”

“Just in case of what?”

Harry’s eyes widened. “You think I’m planning to do something dangerous
and that’s why I want a medical kit?”

A look of grim suspicion and ironic disbelief was the answer.

“Great Scott!” said Harry. (This was an expression he’d learned from the
mad scientist Doc Brown in Back to the Future.) “Were you also thinking
that when I bought the Feather-Falling Potion, the Gillyweed, and the
bottle of Food and Water Pills?”

“Yes.”

Harry shook his head in amazement. “Just what sort of plan do you think
I have going, here?”

“I don’t know,” Professor McGonagall said darkly, “but it ends either in
you delivering a ton of silver to Gringotts, or in world domination.”

“World domination is such an ugly phrase. I prefer to call it world
optimisation.”

This hilarious joke failed to reassure the witch giving him the Look of
Doom.

“Wow,” Harry said, as he realised that she was serious. “You really
think that. You really think I’m planning to do something dangerous.”

“Yes.”

“Like that’s the only reason anyone would ever buy a first-aid kit?
Don’t take this the wrong way, Professor McGonagall, but what sort of
crazy children are you used to dealing with?”

“Gryffindors,” spat Professor McGonagall, the word carrying a freight of
bitterness and despair that fell like an eternal curse on all youthful
enthusiasm and high spirits.

“Deputy Headmistress Professor Minerva McGonagall,” Harry said, putting
his hands sternly on his hips. “I am not going to be in Gryffindor…”

At this point the Deputy Headmistress interjected something about how if
he was she would figure out how to kill a hat, which odd remark Harry
let pass without comment, though the salesgirl seemed to be having a
sudden coughing fit.

“…I am going to be in Ravenclaw. And if you really think that I’m
planning to do something dangerous, then, honestly, you don’t understand
me at all. I don’t like danger, it is scary. I am being prudent. I am
being cautious. I am preparing for unforeseen contingencies. Like my
parents used to sing to me: Be prepared! That’s the Boy Scout’s marching
song! Be prepared! As through life you march along! Don’t be nervous,
don’t be flustered, don’t be scared—be prepared!”

(Harry’s parents had in fact only ever sung him those particular lines
of that Tom Lehrer song, and Harry was blissfully unaware of the rest.)

Professor McGonagall’s stance had slightly softened—though mostly when
Harry had said that he was heading for Ravenclaw. “What sort
of contingency do you imagine this kit might prepare you for, young
man?”

“One of my classmates gets bitten by a horrible monster, and as I
scrabble frantically in my mokeskin pouch for something that could help
her, she looks at me sadly and with her last breath says, ‘Why weren’t
you prepared?’ And then she dies, and I know as her eyes close that she
won’t ever forgive me—”

Harry heard the salesgirl gasp, and he looked up to see her staring at
him with her lips pressed tight. Then the young woman whirled and fled
into the deeper recesses of the shop.

What…?

Professor McGonagall reached down, and took Harry’s hand in hers, gently
but firmly, and pulled Harry out of the main street of Diagon Alley,
leading him into an alleyway between two shops which was paved in dirty
bricks and dead-ended in a wall of solid black dirt.

The tall witch pointed her wand at the main street and spoke, “Quietus”
she said, and a screen of silence descended around them, blocking out
all the street noises.

What did I do wrong…

Professor McGonagall turned to regard Harry. She didn’t have a full
adult Wrongdoing Face, but her expression was flat, controlled. “You
must remember, Mr Potter,” she said, “that there was a war in this
country not ten years ago. Everyone has lost someone, and to speak of
friends dying in your arms—is not done lightly.”

“I—I didn’t mean to—” The inference dropped like a falling stone into
Harry’s exceptionally vivid imagination. He’d talked about someone
breathing their last breath—and then the salesgirl had run away—and the
war had ended ten years ago so that girl would have been at most eight
or nine years old, when, when, “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to…” Harry
choked up, and turned away to run from the older witch’s gaze but there
was a wall of dirt blocking his way and he didn’t have his wand yet.
“I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry!”

There came a heavy sigh from behind him. “I know you are, Mr Potter.”

Harry dared to peek behind him. Professor McGonagall only seemed sad,
now. “I’m sorry,” Harry said again, feeling wretched. “Did anything like
that happen to—” and then Harry shut his lips and slapped a hand over
his mouth for good measure.

The older witch’s face grew a little sadder. “You must learn to think
before you speak, Mr Potter, or else go through life without many
friends. That has been the fate of many a Ravenclaw, and I hope it will
not be yours.”

Harry wanted to just run away. He wanted to pull out a wand and erase
the whole thing from Professor McGonagall’s memory, be back with her
outside the shop again, make it so it didn’t happen—

“But to answer your question, Mr Potter, no, nothing like that has ever
happened to me. Certainly I’ve watched a friend breathe their last, once
or seven times. But not one of them ever cursed me as they died, and I
never thought that they wouldn’t forgive me. Why would you say such a
thing, Mr Potter? Why would you even think it?”

“I, I, I,” Harry swallowed. “It’s just that I always try to imagine the
worst thing that could happen,” and maybe he’d also been joking around a
little but he would rather have bitten off his own tongue than say that
now.

“What?” said Professor McGonagall. “But why?”

“So I can stop it from happening!”

“Mr Potter…” the older witch’s voice trailed off. Then she sighed, and
knelt down beside him. “Mr Potter,” she said, gently now, “it’s not your
responsibility to take care of the students at Hogwarts. It’s mine. I
won’t let anything bad happen to you or anyone else. Hogwarts is the
safest place for magical children in all the wizarding world, and Madam
Pomfrey has a full healer’s office. You won’t need a healer’s kit at
all, let alone a five-Galleon one.”

“But I do!” Harry burst out. “Nowhere is perfectly safe! And what if my
parents have a heart attack or get in an accident when I go home for
Christmas—Madam Pomfrey won’t be there, I’ll need a healer’s kit of my
own—”

“What in Merlin’s name…” Professor McGonagall said. She stood up, and
looked down at Harry an expression torn between annoyance and concern.
“There’s no need to think about such terrible things, Mr Potter!”

Harry’s expression twisted up into bitterness, hearing that. “Yes there
is! If you don’t think, you don’t just get hurt yourself, you end up
hurting other people!”

Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, then closed it. The witch rubbed
the bridge of her nose, looking thoughtful. “Mr Potter… if I were to
offer to listen to you for a while… is there anything you’d like to talk
to me about?”

“About what?”

“About why you’re convinced you must always be on your guard against
terrible things happening to you.”

Harry stared at her in puzzlement. That was a self-evident axiom.
“Well…” Harry said slowly. He tried to organise his thoughts. How could
he explain himself to a Professor-witch, when she didn’t even know the
basics? “Muggle researchers have found that people are always very
optimistic, compared to reality. Like they say something will take two
days and it takes ten days, or they say it’ll take two months and it
takes over thirty-five years. For example, in one experiment, they asked
students for times by which they were 50% sure, 75% sure, and 99% sure
they’d complete their homework, and only 13%, 19%, and 45% of the
students finished by those times. And they found that the reason was
that when they asked one group for their best-case estimates if
everything went as well as possible, and another group for their
average-case estimates if everything went as usual, they got back
answers that were statistically indistinguishable. See, if you ask
someone what they expect in the normal case, they visualise what looks
like the line of maximum probability at each step along the
way—everything going according to plan, with no surprises. But actually,
since more than half the students didn’t finish by the time they were
99% sure they’d be done, reality usually delivers results a little worse
than the ‘worst-case scenario’. It’s called the planning fallacy, and
the best way to fix it is to ask how long things took the last time you
tried them. That’s called using the outside view instead of the inside
view. But when you’re doing something new and can’t do that, you just
have to be really, really, really pessimistic. Like, so pessimistic that
reality actually comes out better than you expected around as often and
as much as it comes out worse. It’s actually really hard to be so
pessimistic that you stand a decent chance of undershooting real life.
Like I make this big effort to be gloomy and I imagine one of my
classmates getting bitten, but what actually happens is that the
surviving Death Eaters attack the whole school to get at me. But on a
happier note—”

“Stop,” said Professor McGonagall.

Harry stopped. He had just been about to point out that at least they
knew the Dark Lord wouldn’t attack, since he was dead.

“I think I might not have made myself clear,” the witch said, her
precise Scottish voice sounding even more careful. “Did anything happen
to you personally that frightened you, Mr Potter?”

“What happened to me personally is only anecdotal evidence,” Harry
explained. “It doesn’t carry the same weight as a replicated,
peer-reviewed journal article about a controlled study with random
assignment, many subjects, large effect sizes and strong statistical
significance.”

Professor McGonagall pinched the bridge of her nose, inhaled, and
exhaled. “I would still like to hear about it,” she said.

“Um…” Harry said. He took a deep breath. “There’d been some muggings in
our neighbourhood, and my mother asked me to return a pan she’d borrowed
to a neighbour two streets away, and I said I didn’t want to because I
might get mugged, and she said, ‘Harry, don’t say things like that!’
Like thinking about it would make it happen, so if I didn’t talk about
it, I would be safe. I tried to explain why I wasn’t reassured, and she
made me carry over the pan anyway. I was too young to know how
statistically unlikely it was for a mugger to target me, but I was old
enough to know that not thinking about something doesn’t stop it from
happening, so I was really scared.”

“Nothing else?” Professor McGonagall said after a pause, when it became
clear that Harry was done. “There isn’t anything else that happened to
you?”

“I know it doesn’t sound like much,” Harry defended. “But it was just
one of those critical life moments, you see? I mean, I knew that not
thinking about something doesn’t stop it from happening, I knew that,
but I could see that Mum really thought that way.” Harry stopped,
struggling with the anger that was starting to rise up again when he
thought about it. “She wouldn’t listen. I tried to tell her, I begged
her not to send me out, and she laughed it off. Everything I said, she
treated like some sort of big joke…” Harry forced the black rage back
down again. “That’s when I realised that everyone who was supposed to
protect me was actually crazy, and that they wouldn’t listen to me no
matter how much I begged them, and that I couldn’t ever rely on them to
get anything right.” Sometimes good intentions weren’t enough, sometimes
you had to be sane…

There was a long silence.

Harry took the time to breathe deeply and calm himself down. There was
no point in getting angry. There was no point in getting angry. All
parents were like that, no adult would lower themselves far enough to
place themselves on level ground with a child and listen, his genetic
parents would have been no different. Sanity was a tiny spark in the
night, an infinitesimally rare exception to the rule of madness, so
there was no point in getting angry.

Harry didn’t like himself when he was angry.

“Thank you for sharing that, Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall after
a while. There was an abstracted look on her face (almost exactly the
same look that had appeared on Harry’s own face while experimenting on
the pouch, if Harry had only seen himself in a mirror to realise that).
“I shall have to think about this.” She turned towards the alley mouth,
and raised her wand—

“Um,” Harry said, “can we go get the healer’s kit now?”

The witch paused, and looked back at him steadily. “And if I say no—that
it is too expensive and you won’t need it—then what?”

Harry’s face twisted in bitterness. “Exactly what you’re thinking,
Professor McGonagall. Exactly what you’re thinking. I conclude you’re
another crazy adult I can’t talk to, and I start planning how to get my
hands on a healer’s kit anyway.”

“I am your guardian on this trip,” Professor McGonagall said with a
tinge of danger. “I will not allow you to push me around.”

“I understand,” Harry said. He kept the resentment out of his voice, and
didn’t say any of the other things that came to mind. Professor
McGonagall had told him to think before he spoke. He probably wouldn’t
remember that tomorrow, but he could at least remember it for five
minutes.

The witch’s wand made a slight circle in her hand, and the noises of
Diagon Alley came back. “All right, young man,” she said. “Let’s go get
that healer’s kit.”

Harry’s jaw dropped in surprise. Then he hurried after her, almost
stumbling in his sudden rush.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The shop was the same as they had left it, recognisable and
unrecognisable items still laid out on the slanted wooden display, the
grey glow still protecting and the salesgirl back in her old position.
The salesgirl looked up as they approached, her face showing surprise.

“I’m sorry,” she said as they got closer, and Harry spoke at almost the
same moment, “I apologise for—”

They broke off and looked at each other, and then the salesgirl laughed
a little. “I didn’t mean to get you in trouble with Professor
McGonagall,” she said. Her voice lowered conspiratorially. “I hope she
wasn’t too awful to you.”

“Della!” said Professor McGonagall, sounding scandalised.

“Bag of gold,” Harry said to his pouch, and then looked back up at the
salesgirl while he counted out five Galleons. “Don’t worry, I understand
that she’s only awful to me because she loves me.”

He counted out five Galleons to the salesgirl while Professor McGonagall
was spluttering something unimportant. “One Emergency Healing Pack Plus,
please.”

It was actually sort of unnerving to see how the Widening Lip swallowed
the briefcase-sized medical kit. Harry couldn’t help wondering what
would happen if he tried climbing into the mokeskin pouch himself, given
that only the person who put something in was supposed to be able to
take it out again.

When the pouch was done… eating… his hard-won purchase, Harry swore he
heard a small burping sound afterwards. That had to have been spelled in
on purpose. The alternative hypothesis was too horrifying to
contemplate… in fact Harry couldn’t even think of any alternative
hypotheses. Harry looked back up at the Professor, as they began walking
through Diagon Alley once more. “Where to next?”

Professor McGonagall pointed toward a shop that looked as if it had been
made from flesh instead of bricks and covered in fur instead of paint.
“Small pets are permitted at Hogwarts—you could get an owl to send
letters, for example—”

“Can I pay a Knut or something and rent an owl when I need to send
mail?”

“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall.

“Then I think emphatically no.”

Professor McGonagall nodded, as though ticking off a point. “Might I ask
why not?”

“I had a pet rock once. It died.”

“You don’t think you could take care of a pet?”

“I could,” Harry said, “but I would end up obsessing all day long about
whether I’d remembered to feed it that day or if it was slowly starving
in its cage, wondering where its master was and why there wasn’t any
food.”

“That poor owl,” the older witch said in a soft voice. “Abandoned like
that. I wonder what it would do.”

“Well, I expect it’d get really hungry and start trying to claw its way
out of the cage or the box or whatever, though it probably wouldn’t have
much luck with that—” Harry stopped short.

The witch went on, still in that soft voice. “And what would happen to
it afterwards?”

“Excuse me,” Harry said, and he reached up to take Professor McGonagall
by the hand, gently but firmly, and steered her into yet another
alleyway; after ducking so many well-wishers the process had become
almost unnoticeably routine. “Please cast that silencing spell.”

“Quietus.”

Harry’s voice was shaking. “That owl does not represent me, my parents
never locked me in a cupboard and left me to starve, I do not have
abandonment fears and I don’t like the trend of your thoughts, Professor
McGonagall!”

The witch looked down at him gravely. “And what thoughts would those be,
Mr Potter?”

“You think I was,” Harry was having trouble saying it, “I was abused?”

“Were you?”

“No!” Harry shouted. “No, I never was! Do you think I’m stupid? I know
about the concept of child abuse, I know about inappropriate touching
and all of that and if anything like that happened I would call the
police! And report it to the head teacher! And look up social services
in the phone book! And tell Grandpa and Grandma and Mrs Figg! But my
parents never did anything like that, never ever ever! How dare you
suggest such a thing!”

The older witch gazed at him steadily. “It is my duty as Deputy
Headmistress to investigate possible signs of abuse in the children
under my care.”

Harry’s anger was spiralling out of control into pure, black fury.
“Don’t you ever dare breathe a word of these, these insinuations to
anyone else! No-one, do you hear me, McGonagall? An accusation like that
can ruin people and destroy families even when the parents are
completely innocent! I’ve read about it in the newspapers!” Harry’s
voice was climbing to a high-pitched scream. “The system doesn’t know
how to stop, it doesn’t believe the parents or the children when they
say nothing happened! Don’t you dare threaten my family with that! I
won’t let you destroy my home!”

“Harry,” the older witch said softly, and she reached out a hand towards
him—

Harry took a fast step back, and his hand snapped up and knocked hers
away.

McGonagall froze, then she pulled her hand back, and took a step
backwards. “Harry, it’s all right,” she said. “I believe you.”

“Do you,” Harry hissed. The fury still roaring through his blood. “Or
are you just waiting to get away from me so you can file the papers?”

“Harry, I saw your house. I saw you with your parents. They love you.
You love them. I do believe you when you say that your parents are not
abusing you. But I had to ask, because there is something strange at
work here.”

Harry stared at her coldly. “Like what?”

“Harry, I’ve seen many abused children in my time at Hogwarts, it would
break your heart to know how many. And, when you’re happy, you don’t
behave like one of those children, not at all. You smile at strangers,
you hug people, I put my hand on your shoulder and you didn’t flinch.
But sometimes, only sometimes, you say or do something that seems very
much like… someone who spent his first eleven years locked in a cellar.
Not the loving family that I saw.” Professor McGonagall tilted her head,
her expression growing puzzled again.

Harry took this in, processing it. The black rage began to drain away,
as it dawned on him that he was being listened to respectfully, and that
his family wasn’t in danger.

“And how do you explain your observations, Professor McGonagall?”

“I don’t know,” she said. “But it’s possible that something could have
happened to you that you don’t remember.”

Fury rose up again in Harry. That sounded all too much like what he’d
read in the newspaper stories of shattered families. “Suppressed memory
is a load of pseudo-science! People do not repress traumatic memories,
they remember them all too well for the rest of their lives!”

“No, Mr Potter. There is a Charm called Obliviation.”

Harry froze in place. “A spell that erases memories?”

The older witch nodded. “But not all the effects of the experience, if
you see what I’m saying, Mr Potter.”

A chill went down Harry’s spine. That hypothesis… could not be easily
refuted. “But my parents couldn’t do that!”

“Indeed not,” said Professor McGonagall. “It would have taken someone
from the wizarding world. There’s… no way to be certain, I’m afraid.”

Harry’s rationalist skills began to boot up again. “Professor
McGonagall, how sure are you of your observations, and what alternative
explanations could there also be?”

The witch opened her hands, as though to show their emptiness. “Sure?
I’m sure of nothing, Mr Potter. In all my life I’ve never met anyone
else like you. Sometimes you just don’t seem eleven years old or even
all that human.”

Harry’s eyebrows rose toward the sky—

“I’m sorry!” Professor McGonagall said quickly. “I’m very sorry,
Mr Potter. I was trying to make a point and I’m afraid that came out
sounding different from what I had in mind—”

“On the contrary, Professor McGonagall,” Harry said, and slowly smiled.
“I shall take it as a very great compliment. But would you mind if I
offered an alternative explanation?”

“Please do.”

“Children aren’t meant to be too much smarter than their parents,” Harry
said. “Or too much saner, maybe—my father could probably outsmart me if
he was, you know, actually trying, instead of using his adult
intelligence mainly to come up with new reasons not to change his mind—”
Harry stopped. “I’m too smart, Professor. I’ve got nothing to say to
normal children. Adults don’t respect me enough to really talk to me.
And frankly, even if they did, they wouldn’t sound as smart as Richard
Feynman, so I might as well read something Richard Feynman wrote
instead. I’m isolated, Professor McGonagall. I’ve been isolated my whole
life. Maybe that has some of the same effects as being locked in a
cellar. And I’m too intelligent to look up to my parents the way that
children are designed to do. My parents love me, but they don’t feel
obliged to respond to reason, and sometimes I feel like they’re the
children—children who won’t listen and have absolute authority over my
whole existence. I try not to be too bitter about it, but I also try to
be honest with myself, so, yes, I’m bitter. And I also have an anger
management problem, but I’m working on it. That’s all.”

“That’s all?”

Harry nodded firmly. “That’s all. Surely, Professor McGonagall, even in
magical Britain, the normal explanation is always worth considering?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was later in the day, the sun lowering in the summer sky and shoppers
beginning to peter out from the streets. Some shops had already closed;
Harry and Professor McGonagall had bought his textbooks from Flourish
and Blotts just under the deadline. With only a slight explosion when
Harry had made a beeline for the keyword “Arithmancy” and discovered
that the seventh-year textbooks invoked nothing more mathematically
advanced than trigonometry.

At this moment, though, dreams of low-hanging research fruit were far
from Harry’s mind.

At this moment, the two of them were walking out of Ollivander’s, and
Harry was staring at his wand. He’d waved it, and produced multicoloured
sparks, which really shouldn’t have come as such an extra shock after
everything else he’d seen, but somehow—

I can do magic.

Me. As in, me personally. I am magical; I am a wizard.

He had felt the magic pouring up his arm, and in that instant, realised
that he had always had that sense, that he had possessed it his whole
life, the sense that was not sight or sound or smell or taste or touch
but only magic. Like having eyes but keeping them always closed, so that
you didn’t even realise that you were seeing darkness; and then one day
the eye opened, and saw the world. The shock of it had poured through
him, touching pieces of himself, awakening them, and then died away in
seconds; leaving only the certain knowledge that he was now a wizard,
and always had been, and had even, in some strange way, always known it.

And—

“It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for this wand
when its brother why, its brother gave you that scar.”

That could not possibly be coincidence. There had been thousands of
wands in that shop. Well, okay, actually it could be coincidence, there
were six billion people in the world and thousand-to-one coincidences
happened every day. But Bayes’s Theorem said that any reasonable
hypothesis which made it more likely than a thousand-to-one that he’d
end up with the brother to the Dark Lord’s wand, was going to have an
advantage.

Professor McGonagall had simply said how peculiar and left it at that,
which had put Harry into a state of shock at the sheer, overwhelming
incuriosity of wizards and witches. In no imaginable world would Harry
have just gone “Hm” and walked out of the shop without even trying to
come up with a hypothesis for what was going on.

His left hand rose and touched his scar.

What… exactly…

“You’re a full wizard now,” said Professor McGonagall.
“Congratulations.”

Harry nodded.

“And what do you think of the wizarding world?” said she.

“It’s strange,” Harry said. “I ought to be thinking about everything
I’ve seen of magic… everything that I now know is possible, and
everything I now know to be a lie, and all the work left before me to
understand it. And yet I find myself distracted by relative trivialities
like,” Harry lowered his voice, “the whole Boy-Who-Lived thing.” There
didn’t seem to be anyone nearby, but no point tempting fate.

Professor McGonagall ahemmed. “Really? You don’t say.”

Harry nodded. “Yes. It’s just… odd. To find out that you were part of
this grand story, the quest to defeat the great and terrible Dark Lord,
and it’s already done. Finished. Completely over with. Like you’re Frodo
Baggins and you find out that your parents took you to Mount Doom and
had you toss in the Ring when you were one year old and you don’t even
remember it.”

Professor McGonagall’s smile had grown somewhat fixed.

“You know, if I were anyone else, anyone else at all, I’d probably be
pretty worried about living up to that start. Gosh, Harry, what have you
done since you defeated the Dark Lord? Your own bookshop? That’s great!
Say, did you know I named my child after you? But I have hopes that this
will not prove to be a problem.” Harry sighed. “Still… it’s almost
enough to make me wish that there were some loose ends from the quest,
just so I could say that I really, you know, participated somehow.”

“Oh?” said Professor McGonagall in an odd tone. “What did you have in
mind?”

“Well, for example, you mentioned that my parents were betrayed. Who
betrayed them?”

“Sirius Black,” the witch said, almost hissing the name. “He’s in
Azkaban. Wizarding prison.”

“How probable is it that Sirius Black will break out of prison and I’ll
have to track him down and defeat him in some sort of spectacular duel,
or better yet put a large bounty on his head and hide out in Australia
while I wait for the results?”

Professor McGonagall blinked. Twice. “Not likely. No-one has ever
escaped from Azkaban, and I doubt that he will be the first.”

Harry was a bit sceptical of that “no-one has ever escaped from Azkaban”
line. Still, maybe with magic you could actually get close to a 100%
perfect prison, especially if you had a wand and they did not. The best
way to get out would be to not go there in the first place.

“All right then,” Harry said. “Sounds like it’s been nicely wrapped up.”
He sighed, scrubbing his palm over his head. “Or maybe the Dark Lord
didn’t really die that night. Not completely. His spirit lingers,
whispering to people in nightmares that bleed over into the waking
world, searching for a way back into the living lands he swore to
destroy, and now, in accordance with the ancient prophecy, he and I are
locked in a deadly duel where the winner shall lose and the loser shall
win—”

Professor McGonagall’s head swivelled, and her eyes darted around, as
though to search the street for listeners.

“I’m joking, Professor,” Harry said with some annoyance. Sheesh, why did
she always take everything so seriously—

A slow sinking sensation began to dawn in the pit of Harry’s stomach.

Professor McGonagall looked at Harry with a calm expression. A very,
very calm expression. Then a smile was put on. “Of course you are,
Mr Potter.”

Aw crap.

If Harry had needed to formalise the wordless inference that had just
flashed into his mind, it would have come out something like, ‘If I
estimate the probability of Professor McGonagall doing what I just saw
as the result of carefully controlling herself, versus the probability
distribution for all the things she would do naturally if I made a bad
joke, then this behaviour is significant evidence for her hiding
something.’

But what Harry actually thought was, Aw crap.

Harry turned his own head to scan the street. Nope, no-one nearby. “He’s
not dead, is he,” Harry sighed.

“Mr Potter—”

“The Dark Lord is alive. Of course he’s alive. It was an act of utter
optimism for me to have even dreamed otherwise. I must have taken leave
of my senses, I can’t imagine what I was thinking. Just because someone
said that his body was found burned to a crisp, I can’t imagine why I
would have thought he was dead. Clearly I have much left to learn about
the art of proper pessimism.”

“Mr Potter—”

“At least tell me there’s not really a prophecy…” Professor McGonagall
was still giving him that bright, fixed smile. “Oh, you have got to be
kidding me.”

“Mr Potter, you shouldn’t go inventing things to worry about—”

“Are you actually going to tell me that? Imagine my reaction later, when
I find out that there was something to worry about after all.”

Her fixed smile faltered.

Harry’s shoulders slumped. “I have a whole world of magic to analyse. I
do not have time for this.”

Then both of them shut up, as a man in flowing orange robes appeared on
the street and slowly passed them by; Professor McGonagall’s eyes
tracked him, unobtrusively. Harry’s mouth was moving as he chewed hard
on his lip, and someone watching closely would have noticed a tiny spot
of blood appear.

When the orange-robed man had passed into the distance, Harry spoke
again, in a low murmur. “Are you going to tell me the truth now,
Professor McGonagall? And don’t bother trying to wave it off, I’m not
stupid.”

“You’re eleven years old, Mr Potter!” she said in a harsh whisper.

“And therefore subhuman. Sorry… for a moment there, I forgot.”

“These are dreadful and important matters! They are secret, Mr Potter!
It is a catastrophe that you, still a child, know even this much! You
must not tell anyone, do you understand? Absolutely no-one!”

As sometimes happened when Harry got sufficiently angry, his blood went
cold, instead of hot, and a terrible dark clarity descended over his
mind, mapping out possible tactics and assessing their consequences with
iron realism.

Point out that you have a right to know: failure. Eleven-year-old
children do not have rights to know anything, in McGonagall’s eyes.

Say that you will not be friends any more: failure. She does not value
your friendship sufficiently.

Point out that you will be in danger if you do not know: failure. Plans
have already been made based on your ignorance. The certain
inconvenience of rethinking will seem far more unpalatable than the mere
uncertain prospect of your coming to harm.

Justice and reason will both fail. You must either find something you
have that she wants, or find something you can do which she fears…

Ah.

“Well then, Professor,” Harry said in a low, icy tone, “it sounds like I
have something you want. You can, if you like, tell me the truth, the
whole truth, and in return I will keep your secrets. Or you can try to
keep me ignorant so you can use me as a pawn, in which case I will owe
you nothing.”

McGonagall stopped short in the street. Her eyes blazed and her voice
descended into an outright hiss. “How dare you!”

“How dare you!” he whispered back at her.

“You would blackmail me?”

Harry’s lips twisted. “I am offering you a favour. I am giving you a
chance to protect your precious secret. If you refuse I will have every
natural motive to make inquiries elsewhere, not to spite you, but
because I have to know! Get past your pointless anger at a child who you
think ought to obey you, and you’ll realise that any sane adult would do
the same! Look at it from my perspective! How would you feel if it was
you?”

Harry watched McGonagall, observed her harsh breathing. It occurred to
him that it was time to ease off the pressure, let her simmer for a
while. “You don’t have to decide right away,” Harry said in a more
normal tone. “I’ll understand if you want time to think about my offer…
but I’ll warn you of one thing,” Harry said, his voice going colder.
“Don’t try that Obliviation spell on me. Some time ago I worked out a
signal, and I have already sent that signal to myself. If I find that
signal and I don’t remember sending it…” Harry let his voice trail off
significantly.

McGonagall’s face was working as her expressions shifted. “I… wasn’t
thinking of Obliviating you, Mr Potter… but why would you have invented
such a signal if you didn’t know about—”

“I thought of it while reading a Muggle science-fiction book, and said
to myself, well, just in case… And no, I won’t tell you the signal, I’m
not dumb.”

“I hadn’t planned to ask,” McGonagall said. She seemed to fold in on
herself, and suddenly looked very old, and very tired. “This has been an
exhausting day, Mr Potter. Can we get your trunk, and send you home? I
will trust you not to speak upon this matter until I have had time to
think. Keep in mind that there are only two other people in the whole
world who know about this matter, and they are Headmaster Albus
Dumbledore and Professor Severus Snape.”

So. New information; that was a peace offering. Harry nodded in
acceptance, and turned his head to look forward, and started walking
again, as his blood slowly began to warm over once more.

“So now I’ve got to find some way to kill an immortal Dark Wizard,”
Harry said, and sighed in frustration. “I really wish you had told me
that before I started shopping.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The trunk shop was more richly appointed than any other shop Harry had
visited; the curtains were lush and delicately patterned, the floor and
walls of stained and polished wood, and the trunks occupied places of
honour on polished ivory platforms. The salesman was dressed in robes of
finery only a cut below those of Lucius Malfoy, and spoke with
exquisite, oily politeness to both Harry and Professor McGonagall.

Harry had asked his questions, and had gravitated to a trunk of
heavy-looking wood, not polished but warm and solid, carved with the
pattern of a guardian dragon whose eyes shifted to look at anyone
nearing it. A trunk charmed to be light, to shrink on command, to sprout
small clawed tentacles from its bottom and squirm after its owner. A
trunk with two drawers on each of four sides that each slid out to
reveal compartments as deep as the whole trunk. A lid with four locks
each of which would reveal a different space inside. And—this was the
important part—a handle on the bottom which slid out a frame containing
a staircase leading down into a small, lighted room that would hold,
Harry estimated, around twelve bookcases.

If they made luggage like this, Harry didn’t know why anyone bothered
owning a house.

One hundred and eight golden Galleons. That was the price of a good
trunk, lightly used. At around fifty British pounds to the Galleon, that
was enough to buy a second-hand car. It would be more expensive than
everything else Harry had ever bought in his whole life all put
together.

Ninety-seven Galleons. That was how much was left in the bag of gold
Harry had been allowed to take out of Gringotts.

Professor McGonagall wore a look of chagrin upon her face. After a long
day’s shopping she hadn’t needed to ask Harry how much gold was left in
the bag, after the salesman quoted his price, which meant the Professor
could do good mental arithmetic without pen and paper. Once again, Harry
reminded himself that scientifically illiterate was not at all the same
thing as stupid.

“I’m sorry, young man,” said Professor McGonagall. “This is entirely my
fault. I would offer to take you back to Gringotts, but the bank will be
closed for all but emergency services now.”

Harry looked at her, wondering…

“Well,” sighed Professor McGonagall, as she swung on one heel, “we may
as well go, I suppose.”

…she hadn’t lost it completely when a child had dared defy her. She
hadn’t been happy, but she had thought instead of exploding in fury. It
might have just been that there was an immortal Dark Lord to fight—that
she had needed Harry’s goodwill. But most adults wouldn’t have been
capable of thinking even that much; wouldn’t consider future
consequences at all, if someone lower in status had refused to obey
them…

“Professor?” Harry said.

The witch turned back and looked at him.

Harry took a deep breath. He needed to be a little angry for what he
wanted to try now, there was no way he’d have the courage to do it
otherwise. She didn’t listen to me, he thought to himself, I would have
taken more gold but she didn’t want to listen… Focusing his entire world
on McGonagall and the need to bend this conversation to his will, he
spoke.

“Professor, you thought one hundred Galleons would be more than enough
for a trunk. That’s why you didn’t bother warning me before it went down
to ninety-seven. Which is just the sort of thing the research studies
show—that’s what happens when people think they’re leaving themselves a
little error margin. They’re not pessimistic enough. If it’d been up to
me, I’d have taken two hundred Galleons just to be sure. There was
plenty of money in that vault, and I could have put back any extra
later. But I thought you wouldn’t let me do it. I thought you’d be angry
at me just for asking. Was I wrong?”

“I suppose I must confess that you are right,” said Professor
McGonagall. “But, young man—”

“That sort of thing is the reason why I have trouble trusting adults.”
Somehow Harry kept his voice steady. “Because they get angry if you even
try to reason with them. To them it’s defiance and insolence and a
challenge to their higher tribal status. If you try to talk to them they
get angry. So if I had anything really important to do, I wouldn’t be
able to trust you. Even if you listened with deep concern to whatever I
said—because that’s also part of the role of someone playing a concerned
adult—you’d never change your actions, you wouldn’t actually behave
differently, because of anything I said.”

The salesman was watching them both with unabashed fascination.

“I can understand your point of view,” Professor McGonagall said
eventually. “If I sometimes seem too strict, please remember that I have
served as Head of Gryffindor House for what feels like several thousand
years.”

Harry nodded and continued. “So—suppose I had a way to get more Galleons
from my vault without us going back to Gringotts, but it involved me
violating the role of an obedient child. Would I be able to trust you
with that, even though you’d have to step outside your own role as
Professor McGonagall to take advantage of it?”

“What?” said Professor McGonagall.

“To put it another way, if I could make today have happened differently,
so that we didn’t take too little money with us, would that be all right
even though it would involve a child being insolent to an adult in
retrospect?”

“I… suppose…” the witch said, looking quite puzzled.

Harry took out the mokeskin pouch, and said, “Eleven Galleons originally
from my family vault.”

And there was gold in Harry’s hand.

For a moment Professor McGonagall’s mouth gaped wide, then her jaw
snapped shut and her eyes narrowed and the witch bit out, “Where did you
get that—”

“From my family vault, like I said.”

“How?”

“Magic.”

“That’s hardly an answer!” snapped Professor McGonagall, and then
stopped, blinking.

“No, it isn’t, is it? I ought to claim that it’s because I
experimentally discovered the true secrets of how the pouch works and
that it can actually retrieve objects from anywhere, not just its own
inside, if you phrase the request correctly. But actually it’s from when
I fell into that pile of gold before and I shoved some Galleons into my
pocket. Anyone who understands pessimism knows that money is something
you might need quickly and without much warning. So now are you angry at
me for defying your authority? Or glad that we succeeded in our
important mission?”

The salesman’s eyes were wide like saucers.

And the tall witch stood there, silent.

“Discipline at Hogwarts must be enforced,” she said after almost a full
minute. “For the sake of all the students. And that must include
courtesy and obedience from you to all professors.”

“I understand, Professor McGonagall.”

“Good. Now let us buy that trunk and go home.”

Harry felt like throwing up, or cheering, or fainting, or something.
That was the first time his careful reasoning had ever worked on anyone.
Maybe because it was also the first time he had something really serious
that an adult needed from him, but still—

Minerva McGonagall, +1 point.

Harry bowed, and gave the bag of gold and the extra eleven Galleons into
McGonagall’s hands. “Thank you very much, Professor. Can you finish up
the purchase for me? I’ve got to visit the lavatory.”

The salesman, unctuous once more, pointed toward a door set into the
wall with a gold-handled knob. As Harry started to walk away, he heard
the salesman ask in his oily voice, “May I inquire as to who that was,
Madam McGonagall? I take it he is Slytherin—third-year, perhaps?—and
from a prominent family, but I did not recognise—”

The slam of the lavatory door cut off his words, and after Harry had
identified the lock and pressed it into place, he grabbed the magical
self-cleaning towel and, with shaky hands, wiped moisture off his
forehead. Harry’s entire body was sheathed in sweat which had soaked
clear through his Muggle clothing, though at least it didn’t show
through the robes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sun was setting and it was very late indeed, by the time they stood
again in the courtyard of the Leaky Cauldron, the silent leaf-dusted
interface between magical Britain’s Diagon Alley and the entire Muggle
world. (That was one awfully decoupled economy…) Harry was to go to a
phone box and call his father, once he was on the other side. He didn’t
need to worry about his luggage being stolen, apparently. His trunk had
the status of a major magical item, something that most Muggles wouldn’t
notice; that was part of what you could get in the wizarding world, if
you were willing to pay the price of a second-hand car.

“So here we part ways, for a time,” Professor McGonagall said. She shook
her head in wonderment. “This has been the strangest day of my life for…
many a year. Since the day I learned that a child had defeated
You-Know-Who. I wonder now, looking back, if that was the last
reasonable day of the world.”

Oh, like she had anything to complain about. You think your day was
surreal? Try mine.

“I was very impressed with you today,” Harry said to her. “I should have
remembered to compliment you out loud, I was awarding you points in my
head and everything.”

“Thank you, Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall. “If you had already
been sorted into a House I would have deducted so many points that your
grandchildren would still be losing the House Cup.”

“Thank you, Professor.” It was probably too early to call her Minnie.

This woman might well be the sanest adult Harry had ever met, despite
her lack of scientific background. Harry was even considering offering
her the number two position in whatever group he formed to fight the
Dark Lord, though he wasn’t silly enough to say that out loud. Now what
would be a good name for that…? The Death Eater Eaters?

“I’ll see you again soon, when school starts,” Professor McGonagall
said. “And, Mr Potter, about your wand—”

“I know what you’re going to ask,” Harry said. He took out his precious
wand and, with a deep twinge of inner pain, flipped it over in his hand,
presenting her with the handle. “Take it. I hadn’t planned to do
anything, not a single thing, but I don’t want you to have nightmares
about me blowing up my house.”

Professor McGonagall shook her head rapidly. “Oh no, Mr Potter! That
isn’t done. I only meant to warn you not to use your wand at home, since
the Ministry can detect underage magic and it is prohibited without
supervision.”

“Ah,” Harry said. “That sounds like a very sensible rule. I’m glad to
see the wizarding world takes that sort of thing seriously.”

Professor McGonagall peered hard at him. “You really mean that.”

“Yes,” Harry said. “I get it. Magic is dangerous and the rules are there
for good reasons. Certain other matters are also dangerous. I get that
too. Remember that I am not stupid.”

“I am unlikely ever to forget it. Thank you, Harry, that does make me
feel better about entrusting you with certain things. Goodbye for now.”

Harry turned to go, into the Leaky Cauldron and out towards the Muggle
world.

As his hand touched the back door’s handle, he heard a last whisper from
behind him.

“Hermione Granger.”

“What?” Harry said, his hand still on the door.

“Look for a first-year girl named Hermione Granger on the train to
Hogwarts.”

“Who is she?”

There was no answer, and when Harry turned around, Professor McGonagall
was gone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath

Headmaster Albus Dumbledore leaned forward over his desk. His twinkling
eyes peered out at Minerva. “So, my dear, how did you find Harry?”

Minerva opened her mouth. Then she closed her mouth. Then she opened her
mouth again. No words came out.

“I see,” Albus said gravely. “Thank you for your report, Minerva. You
may go.”

7. Reciprocation

E. Y.: Whoa. A spokesman for Rowling’s literary agent said that Rowling
is okay with the existence of fanfiction as long as no one charges for
it and everyone’s clear that the original copyrights belong to her?
That’s really cool of her. So thank you, JKR, and thine is the kingdom!

I feel the need to disclaim that certain parts of this chapter are not
meant as “bashing”. It’s not that I have a grudge, the story just writes
itself and once you start dropping anvils on a character it’s hard to
stop.

A few reviewers have asked whether the science in this story is real or
made up. Yes, it is real, and if you look at my profile, you’ll see a
link to a certain nonfiction site that will teach you pretty much
everything Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres knows and then some.

Thank you very much to all my reviewers. (Especially Darkandus on
Viridian Dreams, for the surprisingly inspiring comment “Lungs and tea
are not meant to interact”.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your dad is almost as awesome as my dad.

PETUNIA Evans-Verres’s lips were trembling and her eyes were tearing up
as Harry hugged her midsection on Platform Nine of King’s Cross Station.
“Are you sure you don’t want me to come with you, Harry?”

Harry glanced over to his father Michael Verres-Evans, who was looking
stereotypically stern-but-proud, and then back to his mother, who really
did look rather… discomposed. “Mum, I know you don’t like the wizarding
world very much. You don’t have to come with. I mean it.”

Petunia winced. “Harry, you shouldn’t worry about me, I’m your mother
and if you need someone with you—”

“Mum, I’m going to be on my own at Hogwarts for months and months. If I
can’t manage a train platform alone, better to find out sooner rather
than later so we can abort.” He lowered his voice to a whisper.
“Besides, Mum, they all love me over there. If I have any problems, all
I need to do is take off my sweatband,” Harry tapped the exercise band
covering his scar, “and I’ll have way more help than I can handle.”

“Oh, Harry,” Petunia whispered. She knelt down and hugged him hard, face
to face, their cheeks resting against each other. Harry could feel her
ragged breathing, and then he heard a muffled sob escape. “Oh, Harry, I
do love you, always remember that.”

It’s like she’s afraid she’ll never see me again, the thought popped
into Harry’s head. He knew the thought was true but he didn’t know why
Mum was so afraid.

So he made a guess. “Mum, you know that I’m not going to turn into your
sister just because I’m learning magic, right? I’ll do any magic you ask
for—if I can, I mean—or if you want me not to use any magic around the
house, I’ll do that too, I promise I’ll never let magic come between
us—”

A tight hug cut off his words. “You have a good heart,” his mother
whispered into his ear. “A very good heart, my son.”

Harry choked up himself a little, then.

His mother released him, and stood up. She took a handkerchief out of
her handbag, and with a trembling hand dabbed at the running make-up
around her eyes.

There were no questions about his father accompanying him to the magical
side of King’s Cross Station. Dad had trouble just looking at Harry’s
trunk directly. Magic ran in families, and Michael Verres-Evans couldn’t
even walk.

So instead his father just cleared his throat. “Good luck at school,
Harry,” he said. “Do you think I bought you enough books?”

Harry had explained to his father about how he thought this might be his
big chance to do something really revolutionary and important, and
Professor Verres-Evans had nodded and dumped his extremely busy schedule
for two solid days in order to go on the Greatest Second-hand Bookshop
Raid Ever, which had covered four cities and produced thirty boxes of
science books now sitting in the cavern level of Harry’s trunk. Most of
the books had gone for a pound or two, but some of them definitely
hadn’t, like the very latest Handbook of Chemistry and Physics or the
complete 1972 set of the Encyclopædia Britannica. His father had tried
to block Harry off from seeing the till displays but Harry figured his
father must have spent at least a thousand pounds. Harry had said to his
father that he would pay him back as soon as he figured out how to
convert wizarding gold into Muggle money, and his father had told him to
go boil his head.

And then his father had asked him: Do you think I bought you enough
books? It was quite clear what answer Dad wanted to hear.

Harry’s throat was hoarse, for some reason. “You can never have enough
books,” he recited the Verres family motto, and his father knelt down
and gave him a quick, firm embrace. “But you certainly tried,” Harry
said, and felt himself choking up again. “It was a really, really,
really good try.”

His Dad straightened. “So…” he said. “Do you see a Platform
Nine-and-Three-Quarters?”

King’s Cross Station was huge and busy, with walls and floors paved with
ordinary dirt-stained tiles. It was full of ordinary people hurrying
about their ordinary business, having ordinary conversations which
generated lots and lots of ordinary noise. King’s Cross Station had a
Platform Nine (which they were standing on) and a Platform Ten (right
next to it) but there was nothing between Platform Nine and Platform Ten
except a thin, unpromising barrier wall. A great skylight overhead let
in plenty of light to illuminate the total lack whatsoever of any
Platform Nine-and-Three-Quarters.

Harry stared around until his eyes watered, thinking, come on,
mage-sight, come on, mage-sight, but absolutely nothing appeared to him.
He thought about taking out his wand and waving it, but Professor
McGonagall had warned him against using his wand. Plus if there was
another shower of multicoloured sparks that might lead to being arrested
for setting off fireworks inside a train station. And that was assuming
his wand didn’t decide to do something else, like blowing up all of
King’s Cross. Harry had only lightly skimmed his schoolbooks (though
that skim was quite bizarre enough) in a very quick effort to determine
what sort of science books to buy over the next 48 hours.

Well, he had—Harry glanced at his watch—one whole hour to figure it out,
since he was supposed to be on the train at eleven. Maybe this was the
equivalent of an IQ test and the stupid kids couldn’t become wizards.
(And the amount of extra time you gave yourself would determine your
Conscientiousness, which was the second most important factor in
scholarly success.)

“I’ll figure it out,” Harry said to his waiting parents. “It’s probably
some sort of test thingy.”

His father frowned. “Hm… maybe look for a trail of mixed footprints on
the ground, leading somewhere that doesn’t seem to make sense—”

“Dad!” Harry said. “Stop that! I haven’t even tried to figure it out on
my own!” It was a very good suggestion, too, which was worse.

“Sorry,” his father apologised.

“Ah…” Harry’s mother said. “I don’t think they would do that to a
student, do you? Are you sure Professor McGonagall didn’t tell you
anything?”

“Maybe she was distracted,” Harry said without thinking.

“Harry!” hissed his father and mother in unison. “What did you do?”

“I, um—” Harry swallowed. “Look, we don’t have time for this now—”

“Harry!”

“I mean it! We don’t have time for this now! Because it’s a really long
story and I’ve got to figure out how to get to school!”

His mother had a hand over her face. “How bad was it?”

“I, ah,” I can’t talk about that for reasons of National Security,
“about half as bad as the Incident with the Science Project?”

“Harry!”

“I, er, oh look there are some people with an owl I’ll go ask them how
to get in!” and Harry ran away from his parents towards the family of
fiery redheads, his trunk automatically slithering behind him.

The plump woman looked to him as he arrived. “Hello, dear. First time at
Hogwarts? Ron’s new, too—” and then she peered closely at him. “Harry
Potter?”

Four boys and a red-headed girl and an owl all swung around and then
froze in place.

“Oh, come on!” Harry protested. He’d been planning to go as Harry Verres
at least until he got to Hogwarts. “I bought a sweatband and everything!
How come you know who I am?”

“Yes,” Harry’s father said, coming up behind him with long easy strides,
“how do you know who he is?” His voice indicated a certain dread.

“Your picture was in the newspapers,” said one of two identical-looking
twins.

“HARRY!”

“Dad! It’s not like that! It’s ’cause I defeated the Dark Lord
You-Know-Who when I was one year old!”

“WHAT?”

“Mum can explain.”

“WHAT?”

“Ah… Michael dear, there are certain things I thought it would be best
not to bother you with until now—”

“Excuse me,” Harry said to the red-headed family who were all staring at
him, “but it would be quite extremely helpful if you could tell me how
to get to Platform Nine-and-Three-Quarters right now.”

“Ah…” said the woman. She raised a hand and pointed at the wall between
platforms. “Just walk straight at the barrier between platforms nine and
ten. Don’t stop and don’t be scared you’ll crash into it, that’s very
important. Best do it at a bit of a run if you’re nervous.”

“And whatever you do, don’t think of an elephant.”

“George! Ignore him, Harry dear, there’s no reason not to think of an
elephant.”

“I’m Fred, Mum, not George—”

“Thanks!” Harry said and took off at a run towards the barrier—

Wait a minute, it wouldn’t work unless he believed in it?

It was at times like this that Harry hated his mind for actually working
fast enough to realise that this was a case where “resonant doubt”
applied, that is, if he’d started out thinking that he would go through
the barrier he’d have been fine, only now he was worried about whether
he sufficiently believed he’d go through the barrier, which meant that
he actually was worried about crashing into it—

“Harry! Get back here, you have some explaining to do!” That was his
Dad.

Harry shut his eyes and ignored everything he knew about justified
credibility and just tried to believe really hard that he’d go through
the barrier and—

—the sounds around him changed.

Harry opened his eyes and stumbled to a halt, feeling vaguely dirtied by
having made a deliberate effort to believe something.

He was standing in a bright, open-air platform next to a single huge
train, fourteen long carriages headed up by a massive scarlet-metal
steam engine with a tall chimney that promised death to air quality. The
platform was already lightly crowded (even though Harry was a full hour
early); dozens of children and their parents swarmed around benches,
tables, and various hawkers and stalls.

It went entirely without saying that there was no such place in King’s
Cross Station and no room to hide it.

Okay, so either (a) I just teleported somewhere else entirely (b) they
can fold space like nobody’s business or (c) they are simply ignoring
all the rules.

There was a slithering sound behind him, and Harry turned around to
observe that his trunk had indeed followed him on its small clawed
tentacles. Apparently, for magical purposes, his luggage had also
managed to believe with sufficient strength to pass through the barrier.
That was actually a little disturbing when Harry started thinking about
it.

A moment later, the youngest-looking red-haired boy came through the
iron archway (iron archway?) at a run, pulling his trunk behind him on a
lead and nearly crashing into Harry. Harry, feeling stupid for having
stayed around, quickly began moving away from the landing area, and the
red-haired boy followed him, yanking hard on his trunk’s lead in order
to keep up. A moment later, a white owl fluttered through the archway
and came to rest on the boy’s shoulder.

“Cor,” said the red-haired boy, “are you really Harry Potter?”

Not this again. “I have no logical way of knowing that for certain. My
parents raised me to believe that my name was Harry James
Potter-Evans-Verres, and many people here have told me that I look like
my parents, I mean my other parents, but,” Harry frowned, realising,
“for all I know, there could easily be spells to polymorph a child into
a specified appearance—”

“Er, what, mate?”

Not headed for Ravenclaw, I take it. “Yes, I’m Harry Potter.”

“I’m Ron Weasley,” said the tall skinny freckled long-nosed kid, and
stuck out a hand, which Harry politely shook as they walked. The owl
gave Harry an oddly measured and courteous hoot (actually more of an
eehhhhh sound, which surprised Harry).

At this point Harry realised the potential for imminent catastrophe.
“Just a second,” he said to Ron, and opened one of the drawers of his
trunk, the one that if he recalled correctly was for Winter Clothes—it
was—and then he found the lightest scarf he owned, underneath his winter
coat. Harry took off his sweatband, and just as quickly unfolded the
scarf and tied it around his face. It was a little hot, especially in
the summer, but Harry could live with that.

Then he shut that drawer and pulled out another drawer and drew forth
black wizarding robes, which he shrugged over his head, now that he was
out of Muggle territory.

“There,” Harry said. The sound came out slightly muffled through the
scarf over his face. He turned to Ron. “How do I look? Stupid, I know,
but am I identifiable as Harry Potter?”

“Er,” Ron said. He closed his mouth, which had been open. “Not really,
Harry.”

“Very good,” Harry said. “However, so as not to obviate the point of the
whole exercise, you will henceforth address me as,” Verres might not
work any more, “Mr Spoo.”

“Okay, Harry,” Ron said uncertainly.

The Force is not particularly strong in this one. “Call… me… Mister…
Spoo.”

“Okay, Mister Spoo—” Ron stopped. “I can’t do that, it makes me feel
stupid.”

That’s not just a feeling. “Okay. You pick a name.”

“Mr Cannon,” Ron said at once. “For the Chudley Cannons.”

“Ah…” Harry knew he was going to terribly regret asking this. “Who or
what are the Chudley Cannons?”

“Who’re the Chudley Cannons? Only the most brilliant team in the whole
history of Quidditch! Sure, they finished at the bottom of the league
last year, but—”

“What’s Quidditch?”

Asking this was also a mistake.

“So let me get this straight,” Harry said as it seemed that Ron’s
explanation (with associated hand gestures) was winding down. “Catching
the Snitch is worth one hundred and fifty points?”

“Yeah—”

“How many ten-point goals does one side usually score not counting the
Snitch?”

“Um, maybe fifteen or twenty in professional games—”

“That’s just wrong. That violates every possible rule of game design.
Look, the rest of this game sounds like it might make sense, sort of,
for a sport I mean, but you’re basically saying that catching the Snitch
overwhelms almost any ordinary point spread. The two Seekers are up
there flying around looking for the Snitch and usually not interacting
with anyone else, spotting the Snitch first is going to be mostly luck—”

“It’s not luck!” protested Ron. “You’ve got to keep your eyes moving in
the right pattern—”

“That’s not interactive, there’s no back-and-forth with the other player
and how much fun is it to watch someone incredibly good at moving their
eyes? And then whichever Seeker gets lucky swoops in and grabs the
Snitch and makes everyone else’s work moot. It’s like someone took a
real game and grafted on this pointless extra position so that you could
be the Most Important Player without needing to really get involved or
learn the rest of it. Who was the first Seeker, the King’s idiot son who
wanted to play Quidditch but couldn’t understand the rules?” Actually,
now that Harry thought about it, that seemed like a surprisingly good
hypothesis. Put him on a broomstick and tell him to catch the shiny
thing…

Ron’s face pulled into a scowl. “If you don’t like Quidditch, you don’t
have to make fun of it!”

“If you can’t criticise, you can’t optimise. I’m suggesting how to
improve the game. And it’s very simple. Get rid of the Snitch.”

“They won’t change the game just ’cause you say so!”

“I am the Boy-Who-Lived, you know. People will listen to me. And maybe
if I can persuade them to change the game at Hogwarts, the innovation
will spread.”

A look of absolute horror was spreading over Ron’s face. “But, but if
you get rid of the Snitch, how will anyone know when the game ends?”

“Buy… a… clock. It would be a lot fairer than having the game sometimes
end after ten minutes and sometimes not end for hours, and the schedule
would be a lot more predictable for the spectators, too.” Harry sighed.
“Oh, stop giving me that look of absolute horror, I probably won’t
actually take the time to destroy this pathetic excuse for a national
sport and remake it stronger and smarter in my own image. I’ve got way,
way, way more important stuff to worry about.” Harry looked thoughtful.
“Then again, it wouldn’t take much time to write up the Ninety-Five
Theses of the Snitchless Reformation and nail it to a church door—”

“Potter,” drawled a young boy’s voice, “what is that on your face and
what is standing next to you?”

Ron’s look of horror was replaced by utter hatred. “You!”

Harry turned his head; and indeed it was Draco Malfoy, who might have
been forced to wear standard school robes, but was making up for that
with a trunk looking at least as magical and far more elegant than
Harry’s own, decorated in silver and emeralds and bearing what Harry
guessed to be the Malfoy family crest, a beautiful fanged serpent over
crossed ivory wands.

“Draco!” Harry said. “Er, or Malfoy if you prefer, though that kind of
sounds like Lucius to me. I’m glad to see you’re doing so well after,
um, our last meeting. This is Ron Weasley. And I’m trying to go
incognito, so call me, eh,” Harry looked down at his robes, “Mister
Black.”

“Harry!” hissed Ron. “You can’t use that name!”

Harry blinked. “Why not?” It sounded nicely dark, like an international
man of mystery—

“I’d say it’s a fine name,” said Draco, “but it belongs to the Noble and
Most Ancient House of Black. I’ll call you Mr Silver.”

“You get away from… from Mr Gold,” Ron said coldly, and took a forward
step. “He doesn’t need to talk to the likes of you!”

Harry raised a placating hand. “I’ll go by Mr Bronze, thanks for the
naming schema. And, Ron, um,” Harry struggled to find a way to say this,
“I’m glad you’re so… enthusiastic about protecting me, but I don’t
particularly mind talking to Draco—”

This was apparently the last straw for Ron, who spun on Harry with eyes
now aflame with outrage. “What? Do you know who this is?”

“Yes, Ron,” Harry said, “you may remember that I called him Draco
without him needing to introduce himself.”

Draco sniggered. Then his eyes lit on the white owl on Ron’s shoulder.
“Oh, what’s this?” Draco said in a drawl rich with malice. “Where’s the
famous Weasley family rat?”

“Buried in the backyard,” Ron said coldly.

“Aw, how sad. Pot… ah, Mr Bronze, I should mention that the Weasley
family is widely agreed to have the best pet story ever. Want to tell
it, Weasley?”

Ron’s face contorted. “You wouldn’t think it was funny if it happened to
your family!”

“Oh,” Draco purred, “but it wouldn’t ever happen to the Malfoys.”

Ron’s hands clenched into fists—

“That’s enough,” Harry said, putting as much quiet authority into the
voice as he could manage. It was clear that whatever this was about, it
was a painful memory for the red-haired kid. “If Ron doesn’t want to
talk about it, he doesn’t have to talk about it, and I’d ask that you
not talk about it either.”

Draco turned a surprised look on Harry, and Ron nodded. “That’s right,
Harry! I mean Mr Bronze! You see what kind of person he is? Now tell him
to go away!”

Harry counted to ten inside his head, which for him was a very quick
12345678910—an odd habit left over from the age of five when his mother
had first instructed him to do it, and Harry had reasoned that his way
was faster and ought to be just as effective. “I’m not telling him to go
away,” Harry said calmly. “He’s welcome to talk to me if he wants.”

“Well, I don’t intend to hang around with anyone who hangs around with
Draco Malfoy,” Ron announced coldly.

Harry shrugged. “That’s up to you. I don’t intend to let anyone say who
I can and can’t hang around with.” Silently chanting, please go away,
please go away…

Ron’s face went blank with surprise, like he’d actually expected that
line to work. Then Ron spun about, yanked his luggage’s lead and stormed
off down the platform.

“If you didn’t like him,” Draco said curiously, “why didn’t you just
walk away?”

“Um… his mother helped me figure out how to get to this platform from
King’s Cross Station, so it was kind of hard to tell him to get lost.
And it’s not that I hate this Ron guy,” Harry said, “I just, just…”
Harry searched for words.

“Don’t see any reason for him to exist?” offered Draco.

“Pretty much.”

“Anyway, Potter… if you really were raised by Muggles—” Draco paused
here, as if waiting for a denial, but Harry didn’t say anything “—then
you mightn’t know what it’s like to be famous. People want to take up
all of our time. You have to learn to say no.”

Harry nodded, putting a thoughtful look on his face. “That sounds like
good advice.”

“If you try to be nice, you just end up spending the most time with the
pushiest ones. Decide who you want to spend time with and make everyone
else leave. You’re just getting here, Potter, so everyone’s going to
judge you by who they see you with, and you don’t want to be seen with
the likes of Ron Weasley.”

Harry nodded again. “If you don’t mind my asking, how did you recognise
me?”

“Mister Bronze,” Draco drawled, “I have met you, remember. I saw someone
going around with a scarf wrapped around his head, looking absolutely
ridiculous. So I took a guess.”

Harry bowed his head, accepting the compliment. “I’m terribly sorry
about that,” Harry said. “Our first meeting, I mean. I didn’t mean to
embarrass you in front of Lucius.”

Draco waved it off while giving Harry an odd look. “I just wish Father
could have come in while you were flattering me—” Draco laughed. “But
thank you for what you said to Father. If not for that, I might’ve had a
harder time explaining.”

Harry swept a deeper bow. “And thank you for reciprocating with what you
said to Professor McGonagall.”

“You’re welcome. Though one of the assistants must’ve sworn her closest
friend to absolute secrecy, because Father says there’re weird rumours
going around, like you and I got in a fight or something.”

“Ouch,” Harry said, wincing. “I’m really sorry—”

“No, we’re used to it, Merlin knows there’s lots of rumours about the
Malfoy family already.”

Harry nodded. “I’m glad to hear you’re not in trouble.”

Draco smirked. “Father has, um, a refined sense of humour, but he does
understand making friends. He understands it very well. He made me
repeat that before I went to bed every night for the last month, ‘I will
make friends at Hogwarts.’ When I explained everything to him and he saw
that’s what I was doing, he bought me an ice-cream.”

Harry’s jaw dropped. “You managed to spin that into an ice-cream?”

Draco nodded, looking every bit as smug as the feat deserved. “Well,
father knew what I was doing, of course, but he’s the one who taught me
how to do it, and if I grin the right way while I’m doing it, that makes
it a father-son thing and then he has to buy me an ice-cream or I’ll
give him this sort of sad look, like I think I must have disappointed
him.”

Harry eyed Draco calculatingly, sensing the presence of another master.
“You’ve had lessons on how to manipulate people?”

“Of course,” Draco said proudly. “I’m a Malfoy. Father bought me
tutors.”

“Wow,” Harry said. Reading Robert Cialdini’s Influence: Science and
Practice probably didn’t stack up very high compared to that (though it
was still one heck of a book). “Your dad is almost as awesome as my
dad.”

Draco’s eyebrows rose loftily. “Oh? And what does your father do?”

“He buys me books.”

Draco considered this. “That doesn’t sound very impressive.”

“You had to be there. Anyway, I’m glad to hear all that. The way Lucius
was looking at you, I thought he was going to c-crucify you.”

“My father really loves me,” Draco said firmly. “He wouldn’t ever do
that.”

“Um…” Harry said. He remembered the black-robed, white-haired figure of
elegance that had stormed through Madam Malkin’s, wielding that
beautiful, deadly silver-handled cane. It wasn’t easy to visualise him
as a doting father. “Don’t take this the wrong way, but how do you know
that?”

“Huh?” It was clear that this was a question Draco did not commonly ask
himself.

“I ask the fundamental question of rationality: why do you believe what
you believe? What do you think you know and how do you think you know
it? What makes you think Lucius wouldn’t sacrifice you the same way he’d
sacrifice anything else for power?”

Draco shot Harry another odd look. “Just what do you know about Father?”

“Um… seat on the Wizengamot, seat on Hogwarts’ Board of Governors,
incredibly wealthy, has the ear of Minister Fudge, has the confidence of
Minister Fudge, probably has some highly embarrassing photos of Minister
Fudge, most prominent blood purist now that the Dark Lord’s gone, former
Death Eater who was found to have the Dark Mark but got off by claiming
to be under the Imperius Curse, which was ridiculously implausible and
pretty much everyone knew it… evil with a capital ‘E’ and a born killer…
I think that’s it.”

Draco’s eyes had narrowed to slits. “McGonagall told you that, did she.”

“No, she wouldn’t say anything to me about Lucius afterwards, except to
stay away from him. So during the Incident at the Potions Shop, while
Professor McGonagall was busy yelling at the shopkeeper and trying to
get everything under control, I grabbed one of the customers and asked
them about Lucius.”

Draco’s eyes were wide again. “Did you really?”

Harry gave Draco a puzzled look. “If I lied the first time, I’m not
going to tell you the truth just because you ask twice.”

There was a certain pause as Draco absorbed this.

“You’re so completely going to be in Slytherin.”

“I’m so completely going to be in Ravenclaw, thank you very much. I only
want power so I can get books.”

Draco giggled. “Yeah, right. Anyway… to answer what you asked…” Draco
took a deep breath, and his face turned serious. “Father once missed a
Wizengamot vote for me. I was on a broom and I fell off and broke a lot
of ribs. It really hurt. I’d never hurt that much before and I thought I
was going to die. So Father missed this really important vote, because
he was there by my bed at St. Mungo’s, holding my hands and promising me
that I was going to be okay.”

Harry glanced away uncomfortably, then, with an effort, forced himself
to look back at Draco. “Why are you telling me that? It seems sort of…
private…”

Draco gave Harry a serious look. “One of my tutors once said that people
form close friendships by knowing private things about each other, and
the reason most people don’t make close friends is because they’re too
embarrassed to share anything really important about themselves.” Draco
turned his palms out invitingly. “Your turn?”

Knowing that Draco’s hopeful face had probably been drilled into him by
months of practice did not make it any less effective, Harry observed.
Actually it did make it less effective, but unfortunately not
ineffective. The same could be said of Draco’s clever use of
reciprocation pressure with an unsolicited gift, a technique which Harry
had read about in his social psychology books (one experiment had shown
that an unconditional gift of $5 was twice as effective as a conditional
offer of $50 in getting people to fill out surveys). Draco had made an
unsolicited gift of a confidence, and now invited Harry to offer a
confidence in return… and the thing was, Harry did feel pressured.
Refusal, Harry was certain, would be met with a look of sad
disappointment, and maybe a small amount of contempt indicating that
Harry had lost points.

“Draco,” Harry said, “just so you know, I recognise exactly what you’re
doing right now. My own books called it reciprocation and they talk
about how giving someone a straight gift of two Sickles was found to be
twice as effective as offering them twenty Sickles in getting them to do
what you want…” Harry trailed off.

Draco was looking sad and disappointed. “It’s not meant as a trick,
Harry. It’s a real way of becoming friends.”

Harry held up a hand. “I didn’t say I wasn’t going to respond. I just
need time to pick something that’s private but just as non-damaging.
Let’s say… I wanted you to know that I can’t be rushed into things.” A
pause to reflect could go a long way in defusing the power of a lot of
compliance techniques, once you learned to recognise them for what they
were.

“All right,” Draco said. “I’ll wait while you come up with something.
Oh, and please take off the scarf while you say it.”

Simple but effective.

And Harry couldn’t help but notice how clumsy, awkward, graceless his
attempt at resisting manipulation / saving face / showing off had
appeared compared to Draco. I need those tutors.

“All right,” Harry said after a time. “Here’s mine.” He glanced around
and then rolled the scarf back up over his face, exposing everything but
the scar. “Um… it sounds like you can really rely on your father. I
mean… if you talk to him seriously, he’ll always listen to you and take
you seriously.”

Draco nodded.

“Sometimes,” Harry said, and swallowed. This was surprisingly hard, but
then it was meant to be. “Sometimes I wish my own Dad was like yours.”
Harry’s eyes flinched away from Draco’s face, more or less
automatically, and then Harry forced himself to look back at Draco.

Then it hit Harry what on Earth he’d just said, and Harry hastily added,
“Not that I wish my Dad was a flawless instrument of death like Lucius,
I only mean taking me seriously—”

“I understand,” Draco said with a smile. “There… now doesn’t it feel
like we’re a little closer to being friends?”

Harry nodded. “Yeah. It does, actually. Um… no offence, but I’m going to
put on my disguise again, I really don’t want to deal with—”

“I understand.”

Harry rolled the scarf back down over his face.

“My father takes all his friends seriously,” Draco said. “That’s why he
has lots of friends. You should meet him.”

“I’ll think about it,” Harry said in a neutral voice. He shook his head
in wonder. “So you really are his one weak point. Huh.”

Now Draco was giving Harry a really odd look. “You want to go get
something to drink and find somewhere to sit down?”

Harry realised he had been standing in one place for too long, and
stretched himself, trying to crick his back. “Sure.”

The platform was starting to fill up now, but there was still a quieter
area on the far side away from the red steam engine. Along the way they
passed a stall containing a bald, bearded man offering newspapers and
comic books and stacked neon-green cans.

The stall-holder was, in fact, leaning back and drinking out of one of
the neon-green cans at the exact point when he spotted the refined and
elegant Draco Malfoy approaching along with a mysterious boy looking
incredibly stupid with a scarf tied over his face, causing the
stall-holder to experience a sudden coughing fit in mid-drink and
dribble a large amount of neon-green liquid onto his beard.

“’Scuse me,” Harry said, “but what is that stuff, exactly?”

“Comed-Tea,” said the stall-holder “If you drink it, something
surprising is bound to happen which makes you spill it on yourself or
someone else. But it’s charmed to vanish just a few seconds later—”
Indeed the stain on his beard was already disappearing.

“How droll,” said Draco. “How very, very droll. Come, Mr Bronze, let’s
go find another—”

“Hold on,” Harry said.

“Oh come on! That’s just, just juvenile!”

“No, I’m sorry Draco, I have to investigate this. What happens if I
drink Comed-Tea while doing my best to keep the conversation completely
serious?”

The stall-holder smiled mysteriously. “Who knows? A friend walks by in a
frog costume? Something unexpected is bound to happen—”

“No. I’m sorry. I just don’t believe it. That violates my much-abused
suspension of disbelief on so many levels I don’t even have the language
to describe it. There is, there is just no way a bloody drink can
manipulate reality to produce comedy setups, or I’m going to give up and
retire to the Bahamas—”

Draco groaned. “Are we really going to do this?”

“You don’t have to drink it but I have to investigate. Have to. How
much?”

“Five Knuts the can,” the stall-holder said.

“Five Knuts? You can sell reality-manipulating fizzy drinks for five
Knuts the can?” Harry reached into his pouch, said “four Sickles, four
Knuts,” and slapped them down on the counter. “Two dozen cans please.”

“I’ll also take one,” Draco sighed, and started to reach for his
pockets.

Harry shook his head rapidly. “No, I’ve got this, doesn’t count as a
favour either, I want to see if it works for you too.” He took a can
from the stack now placed on the counter and tossed it to Draco, then
started feeding his pouch. The pouch’s Widening Lip ate the cans
accompanied by small burping noises, which wasn’t exactly helping to
restore Harry’s faith that he would some day discover a reasonable
explanation for all this.

Twenty-two burps later, Harry had the last purchased can in his hand,
Draco was looking at him expectantly, and the two of them pulled the
ring at the same time.

Harry rolled up his scarf to expose his mouth, and they tilted their
heads back and drank the Comed-Tea.

It somehow tasted bright green—extra-fizzy and limer than lime.

Aside from that, nothing else happened.

Harry looked at the stall-holder, who was watching them benevolently.

All right, if this guy just took advantage of a natural accident to sell
me twenty-four cans of nothing, I’m going to applaud his creative
entrepreneurial spirit and then kill him.

“It doesn’t always happen immediately,” the stall-holder said. “But it’s
guaranteed to happen once per can, or your money back.”

Harry took another long drink.

Once again, nothing happened.

Maybe I should just chug the whole thing as fast as possible… and hope
my stomach doesn’t explode from all the carbon dioxide, or that I don’t
burp while drinking it…

No, he could afford to be a little patient. But honestly, Harry didn’t
see how this was going to work. You couldn’t go up to someone and say
“Now I’m going to surprise you” or “And now I’m going to tell you the
punchline of the joke, and it’ll be really funny.” It ruined the shock
value. In Harry’s state of mental preparedness, Lucius Malfoy could have
walked past in a ballerina outfit and it wouldn’t have made him do a
proper spit-take. Just what sort of wacky shenanigan was the universe
supposed to cough up now?

“Anyway, let’s sit down,” Harry said. He prepared to swig another drink
and started towards the distant seating area, which put him at the right
angle to glance back and see the portion of the stall’s newspaper stand
that was devoted to a newspaper called The Quibbler, which was showing
the following headline:

Boy-Who-Lived Gets
Draco Malfoy Pregnant

“Gah!” screamed Draco as bright green liquid sprayed all over him from
Harry’s direction. Draco turned to Harry with fire in his eyes and
grabbed his own can. “You son of a mudblood! Let’s see how you like
being spat upon!” Draco took a deliberate swig from the can just as his
own eyes caught sight of the headline.

In sheer reflex action, Harry tried to block his face as the spray of
liquid flew in his direction. Unfortunately he blocked using the hand
containing the Comed-Tea, sending the rest of the green liquid to splash
out over his shoulder.

Harry stared at the can in his hand even as he went on choking and
spluttering and the green colour started to vanish from Draco’s robes.

Then he looked up and stared at the newspaper headline.

Boy-Who-Lived Gets
Draco Malfoy Pregnant

Harry’s lips opened and said, “buh-bluh-buh-buh…”

Too many competing objections, that was the problem. Every time Harry
tried to say “But we’re only eleven!” the objection “But men can’t get
pregnant!” demanded first priority and was then run over by “But there’s
nothing between us, really!”

Then Harry looked down at the can in his hand again.

He was feeling a deep-seated desire to run away screaming at the top of
his lungs until he dropped from lack of oxygen, and the only thing
stopping him was that he had once read that outright panic was the sign
of a truly important scientific problem.

Harry snarled, threw the can violently into a nearby rubbish bin, and
stalked back over to the stall. “One copy of The Quibbler, please.”
Harry paid over four more Knuts, retrieved another can of Comed-Tea from
his pouch, and then stalked over to the picnic area with the
blond-haired boy, who was staring at his own can with an expression of
frank admiration.

“I take it back,” Draco said, “that was pretty good.”

“Hey, Draco, you know what I bet is even better for becoming friends
than exchanging secrets? Committing murder.”

“I have a tutor who says that,” Draco allowed. He reached inside his
robes and scratched himself with an easy, natural motion. “Who’ve you
got in mind?”

Harry slammed The Quibbler down hard on the picnic table. “The guy who
came up with this headline.”

Draco groaned. “Not a guy. A girl. A ten-year-old girl, can you believe
it? She went nuts after her mother died and her father, who owns this
newspaper, is convinced that she’s a seer, so when he doesn’t know he
asks Luna Lovegood and believes anything she says.”

Not really thinking about it, Harry pulled the ring on his next can of
Comed-Tea and prepared to drink. “Are you kidding me? That’s even worse
than Muggle journalism, which I would have thought was physically
impossible.”

Draco snarled. “She has some sort of perverse obsession about the
Malfoys, too, and her father is politically opposed to us so he prints
every word. As soon as I’m old enough I’m going to rape her.”

Green liquid spurted out of Harry’s nostrils, soaking into the scarf
still covering that area. Comed-Tea and lungs did not mix, and Harry
spent the next few seconds frantically coughing.

Draco looked at him sharply. “Something wrong?”

It was at this point that Harry came to the sudden realisation that
(a) the sounds coming from the rest of the train platform had turned
into more of a blurred white noise at around the same time Draco had
reached inside his robes, and (b) when he had discussed committing
murder as a bonding method, there had been exactly one person in the
conversation who’d thought they were joking.

Right. Because he seemed like such a normal kid. And he is a normal kid,
he is just what you’d expect a baseline male child to be like if Darth
Vader were his doting father.

“Yes, well,” Harry coughed, oh god how was he going to get out of this
conversational wedge, “I was just surprised at how you were willing to
discuss it so openly, you didn’t seem worried about getting caught or
anything.”

Draco snorted. “Are you joking? Luna Lovegood’s word against mine?”

Holy crap on a holy stick. “There’s no such thing as magical truth
detection, I take it?” Or DNA testing… yet.

Draco looked around. His eyes narrowed. “That’s right, you don’t know
anything. Look, I’ll explain things to you, I mean the way it really
works, just like you were already in Slytherin and asked me the same
question. But you’ve got to swear not to say anything about it.”

“I swear,” Harry said.

“The courts use Veritaserum, but it’s a joke really, you just get
yourself Obliviated before you testify and then claim the other person
was Memory-Charmed with a fake memory. Of course if you’re just some
normal person, the courts presume in favour of Obliviation, not False
Memory Charms. But the court has discretion, and if I’m involved then it
impinges on the honour of a Noble House, so it goes to the Wizengamot,
where Father has the votes. After I’m found not guilty the Lovegood
family has to pay reparations for tarnishing my honour. And they know
from the start that’s how it’ll go, so they’ll just keep their mouths
shut.”

A cold chill was coming over Harry, a chill that came with instructions
to keep his voice and face normal. Note to self: Overthrow government of
magical Britain at earliest convenience.

Harry coughed again to clear his throat. “Draco, please please please
don’t take this the wrong way, my word is my bond, but like you said I
could be in Slytherin and I really want to ask for informational
purposes, so what would happen theoretically speaking if I did testify
that I’d heard you plan it?”

“Then if I was anyone other than a Malfoy, I’d be in trouble,” Draco
answered smugly. “Since I am a Malfoy… Father has the votes. And
afterwards he’d crush you… well, I guess not easily, since you are the
Boy-Who-Lived, but Father is pretty good at that sort of thing.” Draco
frowned. “’Sides, you talked about murdering her, why weren’t you
worried about me testifying after she turns up dead?”

How, oh how did my day go this wrong? Harry’s mouth was already moving
faster than he could think. “That’s when I thought she was older! I
don’t know how it works here, but in Muggle Britain the courts would get
a lot more upset about someone killing a child—”

“That makes sense,” Draco said, still looking a bit suspicious. “But
anyway, it’s always smarter if it doesn’t go to the Aurors at all. If
we’re careful only to do things that Healing Charms can fix, we can just
Obliviate her afterwards and then do it all again next week.” Then the
blonde-haired boy giggled, a youthful high-pitched sound. “Though just
imagine her saying she’d been done by Draco Malfoy and the
Boy-Who-Lived, not even Dumbledore would believe her.”

I am going to tear apart your pathetic little magical remnant of the
Dark Ages into pieces smaller than its constituent atoms. “Actually, can
we hold off on that? After I found out that headline came from a girl a
year younger than me, I had a different thought for my revenge.”

“Huh? Do tell,” Draco said, and started to take another swig of his
Comed-Tea.

Harry didn’t know if the enchantment worked more than once per can, but
he did know he could avoid the blame, so he was careful to time it
exactly right:

“I was thinking some day I’m going to marry that woman.”

Draco made a horrid ker-splutching sound and leaked green fluid out the
corners of his mouth like a broken car radiator. “Are you nuts?”

“Quite the opposite, I’m so sane it burns like ice.”

“You’ve got weirder taste than a Lestrange,” Draco said, sounding
half-admiring about it. “And I suppose you want her all to yourself,
huh?”

“Yep. I can owe you a favour for it—”

Draco waved it off. “Nah, this one’s free.”

Harry stared down at the can in his hand, the coldness settling into his
blood. Charming, happy, generous with his favours to his friends, Draco
wasn’t a psychopath. That was the sad and awful part, knowing human
psychology well enough to know that Draco wasn’t a monster. There had
been ten thousand societies over the history of the world where this
conversation could have happened. No, the world would have been a very
different place indeed, if it took an evil mutant to say what Draco had
said. It was very simple, very human, it was the default if nothing else
intervened. To Draco, his enemies weren’t people.

And in the slowed time of this slowed country, here and now as in the
darkness-before-dawn prior to the Age of Reason, the son of a
sufficiently powerful noble would simply take for granted that he was
above the law, at least when it came to some peasant girl. There were
places in Muggle-land where it was still the same way, countries where
that sort of nobility still existed and still thought like that, or even
grimmer lands where it wasn’t just the nobility. It was like that in
every place and time that didn’t descend directly from the
Enlightenment. A line of descent, it seemed, which didn’t quite include
magical Britain, for all that there had been cross-cultural
contamination of things like ring-pull drinks cans.

And if Draco doesn’t change his mind about wanting revenge, and I don’t
throw away my own chance at happiness in life to marry some poor crazy
girl, then all I’ve just bought is time, and not too much of it…

For one girl. Not for others.

I wonder how difficult it would be to just make a list of all the top
blood purists and kill them.

They’d tried exactly that during the French Revolution, more or
less—make a list of all the enemies of Progress and remove everything
above the neck—and it hadn’t worked out well from what Harry recalled.
Maybe he needed to dust off some of those history books his father had
bought him, and see if what had gone wrong with the French Revolution
was something easy to fix.

Harry gazed up at the sky, and at the pale shape of the Moon, visible
this morning through the cloudless air.

So the world is broken and flawed and insane, and cruel and bloody and
dark. This is news? You always knew that, anyway…

“You’re looking all serious,” Draco said. “Let me guess, your Muggle
parents told you that this sort of thing was bad.”

Harry nodded, not quite trusting his voice.

“Well, like Father says, there may be four houses, but in the end
everyone belongs to either Slytherin or Hufflepuff. And frankly, you’re
not on the Hufflepuff end. If you decide to side with the Malfoys under
the table… our power and your reputation… you could get away with things
even I can’t do. Want to try it for a while? See what it’s like?”

Aren’t we a clever little serpent. Eleven years old and already coaxing
your prey from hiding…

Harry thought, considered, chose his weapon. “Draco, you want to explain
the whole blood purity thing to me? I’m sort of new.”

A wide smile crossed Draco’s face. “You really should meet Father and
ask him, you know, he’s our leader.”

“Give me the thirty-second version.”

“Okay,” Draco said. He drew in a deep breath, and his voice grew
slightly lower, and took on a cadence. “Our powers have grown weaker,
generation by generation, as the mudblood taint increases. Where Salazar
and Godric and Rowena and Helga once raised Hogwarts by their power,
creating the Locket and the Sword and the Diadem and the Cup, no wizard
of these faded days has risen to rival them. We are fading, all fading
into Muggles as we interbreed with their spawn and allow our Squibs to
live. If the taint is not checked, soon our wands will break and all our
arts cease, the line of Merlin will end and the blood of Atlantis fail.
Our children will be left scratching at the dirt to survive like the
mere Muggles, and darkness will cover all the world for ever.” Draco
took another swig from his drinks can, looking satisfied; that seemed to
be the whole argument as far as he was concerned.

“Persuasive,” Harry said, meaning it descriptively rather than
normatively. It was a standard pattern: The Fall from Grace, the need to
guard what purity remained against contamination, the past sloping
upwards and the future sloping only down. And that pattern also had its
counter… “I have to correct you on one point of fact, though. Your
information about the Muggles is a bit out of date. We aren’t exactly
scratching at the dirt any more.”

Draco’s head snapped around. “What? What do you mean, we?”

“We. The scientists. The line of Francis Bacon and the blood of the
Enlightenment. Muggles didn’t just sit around crying about not having
wands, we have our own powers now, with or without magic. If all your
powers fail then we will all have lost something very precious, because
your magic is the only hint we have as to how the universe must really
work—but you won’t be left scratching at the ground. Your houses will
still be cool in summer and warm in winter, there will still be doctors
and medicine. Science can keep you alive if magic fails. It’d be a
tragedy, but not literally the end of all the light in the world. Just
saying.”

Draco had backed up several feet and his face was full of mixed fear and
disbelief. “What in the name of Merlin are you talking about, Potter?”

“Hey, I listened to your story, won’t you listen to mine?” Clumsy, Harry
chided himself, but Draco actually did stop backing off and seem to
listen.

“Anyway,” Harry said, “I’m saying that you don’t seem to have been
paying much attention to what goes on in the Muggle world.” Probably
because the whole wizarding world seemed to regard the rest of Earth as
a slum, deserving around as much news coverage as the Financial Times
awarded to the routine agonies of Burundi. “All right. Quick check. Have
wizards ever been to the Moon? You know, that thing?” Harry pointed up
to that huge and distant globe.

“What?” Draco said. It was pretty clear the thought had never occurred
to the boy. “Go to the—it’s just a—” His finger pointed at the little
pale thingy in the sky. “You can’t Apparate to somewhere you’ve never
been and how would anyone get to the Moon in the first place?”

“Hold on,” Harry said to Draco, “I’d like to show you a book I brought
with me, I think I remember what box it’s in.” And Harry stood up and
knelt down and yanked out the stairs to the cavern level of his trunk,
then tore down the stairs and heaved a box off another box, coming
perilously close to treating his books with disrespect, and snatched off
the box cover and quickly but carefully pried out a stack of books—

(Harry had inherited the nigh-magical Verres ability to remember where
all his books were, even after seeing them just once, which was rather
mysterious considering the lack of any genetic connection.)

And Harry raced back up the stairs and shoved the staircase back into
the trunk with his heel, and, panting, turned the pages of the book
until he found the picture he wanted to show to Draco.

The one with the white, dry, cratered land, and the suited people, and
the blue-white globe hanging over it all.

That picture.

The picture, if only one picture in all the world were to survive.

“That,” Harry said, his voice trembling because he couldn’t quite keep
the pride out, “is what the Earth looks like from the Moon.”

Draco slowly leaned over. There was a strange expression on his young
face. “If that’s a real picture, why isn’t it moving?”

Moving? Oh. “Muggles can do moving pictures but they need a bigger box
to show it, they can’t fit them onto single book pages yet.”

Draco’s finger moved to one of the suits. “What are those?” His voice
starting to waver.

“Those are human beings. They are wearing suits that cover their whole
bodies to give them air, because there is no air on the Moon.”

“That’s impossible,” Draco whispered. There was terror in his eyes, and
utter confusion. “No Muggle could ever do that. How…”

Harry took back the book, flipped the pages until he found what he saw.
“This is a rocket going up. The fire pushes it higher and higher, until
it gets to the Moon.” Flipped pages again. “This is a rocket on the
ground. That tiny speck next to it is a person.” Draco gasped. “Going to
the Moon cost the equivalent of… probably around a thousand million
Galleons.” Draco choked. “And it took the efforts of… probably more
people than live in all of magical Britain.” And when they arrived, they
left a plaque that said, ‘We came in peace, for all mankind.’ Though
you’re not yet ready to hear those words, Draco Malfoy…

“You’re telling the truth,” Draco said slowly. “You wouldn’t fake a
whole book just for this—and I can hear it in your voice. But… but…”

“How, without wands or magic? It’s a long story, Draco. Science doesn’t
work by waving wands and chanting spells, it works by knowing how the
universe works on such a deep level that you know exactly what to do in
order to make the universe do what you want. If magic is like casting
Imperio on someone to make them do what you want, then science is like
knowing them so well that you can convince them it was their own idea
all along. It’s a lot more difficult than waving a wand, but it works
when wands fail, just like if the Imperius failed you could still try
persuading a person. And Science builds from generation to generation.
You have to really know what you’re doing to do science—and when you
really understand something, you can explain it to someone else. The
greatest scientists of one century ago, the brightest names that are
still spoken with reverence, their powers are as nothing to the greatest
scientists of today. There is no equivalent in science of your lost arts
that raised Hogwarts. In science our powers wax by the year. And we are
beginning to understand and unravel the secrets of life and inheritance.
We’ll be able to look at the very blood of which you spoke, and see what
makes you a wizard, and in one or two more generations, we’ll be able to
persuade that blood to make all your children powerful wizards too. So
you see, your problem isn’t nearly as bad as it looks, because in a few
more decades, science will be able to solve it for you.”

“But…” Draco said. His voice was trembling. “If Muggles have that kind
of power… then… what are we?”

“No, Draco, that’s not it, don’t you see? Science taps the power of
human understanding to look at the world and figure out how it works. It
can’t fail without humanity itself failing. Your magic could turn off,
and you would hate that, but you would still be you. You would still be
alive to regret it. But because science rests upon my human
intelligence, it is the power that cannot be removed from me without
removing me. Even if the laws of the universe change on me, so that all
my knowledge is void, I’ll just figure out the new laws, as has been
done before. It’s not a Muggle thing, it’s a human thing, it just
refines and trains the power you use every time you look at something
you don’t understand and ask ‘Why?’ You’re of Slytherin, Draco, don’t
you see the implication?”

Draco looked up from the book to Harry. His face showed dawning
understanding. “Wizards can learn to use this power.”

Very carefully, now… the bait is set, now the hook… “If you can learn to
think of yourself as a human instead of a wizard then you can train and
refine your powers as a human.”

And if that instruction wasn’t in every science curriculum, Draco didn’t
need to know it, did he?

Draco’s eyes were now thoughtful. “You’ve… already done this?”

“To some extent,” Harry allowed. “My training isn’t complete. Not at
eleven. But—my father also bought me tutors, you see.” Sure, they’d been
starving grad students, and it had only been because Harry slept on a
26-hour cycle, but leave all that aside for now…

Slowly, Draco nodded. “You think you can master both arts, add the
powers together, and…” Draco stared at Harry. “Make yourself Lord of the
two worlds?”

Harry gave an evil laugh, it just seemed to come naturally at that
point. “You have to realise, Draco, that the whole world you know, all
of magical Britain, is just one square on a much larger game board. The
game board that includes places like the Moon, and the stars in the
night sky, which are lights just like the Sun only unimaginably far
away, and things like galaxies that are vastly huger than the Earth and
Sun, things so large that only scientists can see them and you don’t
even know they exist. But I really am Ravenclaw, you know, not
Slytherin. I don’t want to rule the universe. I just think it could be
more sensibly organised.”

There was awe on Draco’s face. “Why are you telling me this?”

“Oh… there aren’t many people who know how to do true
science—understanding something for the very first time, even if it
confuses the hell out of you. Help would be helpful.”

Draco stared at Harry with his mouth open.

“But make no mistake, Draco, true science really isn’t like magic, you
can’t just do it and walk away unchanged like learning how to say the
words of a new spell. The power comes with a cost, a cost so high that
most people refuse to pay it.”

Draco nodded at this as though, finally, he’d heard something he could
understand. “And that cost?”

“Learning to admit you’re wrong.”

“Um,” Draco said after the dramatic pause had stretched on for a while.
“You going to explain that?”

“Trying to figure out how something works on that deep level, the first
ninety-nine explanations you come up with are wrong. The hundredth is
right. So you have to learn how to admit you’re wrong, over and over and
over again. It doesn’t sound like much, but it’s so hard that most
people can’t do science. Always questioning yourself, always taking
another look at things you’ve always taken for granted,” like having a
Snitch in Quidditch, “and every time you change your mind, you change
yourself. But I’m getting way ahead of myself here. Way ahead of myself.
I just want you to know… I’m offering to share some of my knowledge. If
you want. There’s just one condition.”

“Uh huh,” Draco said. “You know, Father says that when someone says that
to you, it is never a good sign, ever.”

Harry nodded. “Now, don’t mistake me and think that I’m trying to drive
a wedge between you and your father. It’s not about that. It’s just
about me wanting to deal with someone my own age, rather than having
this be between me and Lucius. I think your father would be okay with
that too, he knows you have to grow up sometime. But your moves in our
game have to be your own. That’s my condition—that I’m dealing with you,
Draco, not your father.”

“I’ve got to go,” Draco said. He stood up. “I’ve got to go off and think
about this.”

“Take your time,” Harry said.

The sounds of the train platform changed from blurs into murmurs as
Draco wandered off.

Harry slowly exhaled the air he’d been holding in without quite
realising it, and then looked at the watch on his wrist, a simple
mechanical model that his father had bought him in hope it would work in
magic’s presence. The second-hand was still ticking, and if the minute
hand was right, then it wasn’t quite eleven just yet. He probably ought
to get on the train soon and start looking for whatsherface, but it
seemed worth taking a few minutes first to do some breathing exercises
and see if his blood warmed up again.

But when Harry looked up from his watch, he saw two figures approaching,
looking utterly ridiculous with their faces cloaked by winter scarves.

“Hello, Mr Bronze,” said one of the masked figures. “Can we interest you
in joining the Order of Chaos?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath

Not too long after that, when all that day’s fuss had finally subsided,
Draco was bent over a desk with quill in hand. He had a private room in
the Slytherin dungeons, with its own desk and its own fire—sadly not
even he rated a connection to the Floo system, but at least Slytherin
didn’t buy into that utter nonsense about making everyone sleep in
dorms. There weren’t many private rooms, you had to be the very best
within the House of the better sort, but that could be taken for granted
with the House of Malfoy.

Dear Father, Draco wrote.

And then he stopped.

Ink slowly dripped from his quill, staining the parchment near the
words.

Draco wasn’t stupid. He was young, but his tutors had trained him well.
Draco knew that Potter probably felt a lot more sympathy towards
Dumbledore’s faction than Potter was letting on… though Draco did think
Potter could be tempted. But it was crystal clear that Potter was trying
to tempt Draco just as Draco was trying to tempt him.

And it was also clear that Potter was brilliant, and a whole lot more
than just slightly mad, and playing a vast game that Potter himself
mostly didn’t understand, improvised at top speed with the subtlety of a
rampaging nundu. But Potter had managed to choose a tactic that Draco
couldn’t just walk away from. He had offered Draco a part of his own
power, gambling that Draco couldn’t use it without becoming more like
him. His father had called this an advanced technique, and had warned
Draco that it often didn’t work.

Draco knew he hadn’t understood everything that had happened… but Potter
had offered him the chance to play and right now it was his. And if he
blurted the whole thing out, it would become Father’s.

In the end it was as simple as that. The lesser techniques require the
unawareness of the target, or at least their uncertainty. Flattery has
to be plausibly disguised as admiration. (“You should have been in
Slytherin” is an old classic, highly effective on a certain type of
person who isn’t expecting it, and if it works you can repeat it.) But
when you find someone’s ultimate lever it doesn’t matter if they know
you know. Potter, in his mad rush, had guessed a key to Draco’s soul.
And if Draco knew that Potter knew it—even if it had been an obvious
sort of guess—that didn’t change anything.

So now, for the first time in his life, he had real secrets to keep. He
was playing his own game. There was an obscure pain to it, but he knew
that Father would be proud, and that made it all right.

Leaving the ink drippings in place—there was a message there, and one
that his father would understand, for they had played the game of
subtleties more than once—Draco wrote out the one question that really
had gnawed at him about the whole affair, the part that it seemed he
ought to understand, but he didn’t, not at all.

Dear Father:

Suppose I told you that I met a student at Hogwarts, not already part of
our circle of acquaintances, who called you a ‘flawless instrument of
death’ and said that I was your ‘one weak point’. What would you say
about him?

It didn’t take long after that for the family owl to bring the reply.

My beloved son:

I would say that you had been so fortunate as to meet someone who enjoys
the intimate confidence of our friend and valuable ally, Severus Snape.

Draco stared at the letter for a while, and finally threw it into the
fire.

8. Positive Bias

E. Y.: All these worlds are J. K. Rowling’s, except Europa. Attempt no
fanfics there.

One alert reviewer asked whether, if Luna is a seer, that means this is
going to be an HPDM bottom!Draco mpreg fic. I regret that FFN does not
allow me any larger font size in which to say NO. It honestly hadn’t
occurred to me that Luna might be a real seer—I’ll have to decide
whether to run with that or not—but I think we can all safely assume
that if Luna is a seer, she said something about “light planting a seed
in darkness”, and Xenophilius, as always, interpreted this in rather the
wrong way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allow me to warn you that challenging my ingenuity is a dangerous sort
of project, and may tend to make your life a lot more surreal.

NO-one had asked for help, that was the problem. They’d just gone around
talking, eating, or staring into the air while their parents exchanged
gossip. For whatever odd reason, no-one had been sitting down reading a
book, which meant she couldn’t just sit down next to them and take out
her own book. And even when she’d boldly taken the initiative by sitting
down and continuing her third read-through of Hogwarts: A History,
no-one had seemed inclined to sit down next to her.

Aside from helping people with their homework, or anything else they
needed, she really didn’t know how to meet people. She didn’t feel like
she was a shy person. She thought of herself as a take-charge sort of
girl. And yet, somehow, if there wasn’t some request along the lines of
“I can’t remember how to do long division” then it was just too awkward
to go up to someone and say… what? She’d never been able to figure out
what. And there didn’t seem to be a standard information sheet, which
was ridiculous. The whole business of meeting people had never seemed
sensible to her. Why did she have to take all the responsibility herself
when there were two people involved? Why didn’t adults ever help? She
wished some other girl would just walk up to her and say, “Hermione, the
teacher told me to be friends with you.”

But let it be quite clear that Hermione Granger, sitting alone on the
first day of school in one of the few compartments that had been empty,
in the last carriage of the train, with the compartment door left open
just in case anyone for any reason wanted to talk to her, was not sad,
lonely, gloomy, depressed, despairing, or obsessing about her problems.
She was, rather, rereading Hogwarts: A History for the third time and
quite enjoying it, with only a faint tinge of annoyance in the back of
her mind at the general unreasonableness of the world.

There was the sound of an inter-train door opening, and then footsteps
and an odd slithering sound coming down the hallway of the train.
Hermione laid aside Hogwarts: A History and stood up and stuck her head
outside—just in case someone needed help—and saw a young boy in a
wizard’s dress robes, probably first or second year going by his height,
and looking quite silly with a scarf wrapped around his head. A small
trunk stood on the floor next to him. Even as she saw him, he knocked on
the door of another, closed compartment, and he said in a voice only
slightly muffled by the scarf, “Excuse me, can I ask a quick question?”

She didn’t hear the answer from inside the compartment, but after the
boy opened the door, she did think she heard him say—unless she’d
somehow misheard—“Does anyone here know the six quarks or where I can
find a first-year girl named Hermione Granger?”

After the boy had closed that compartment door, Hermione said, “Can I
help you with something?”

The scarfed face turned to look at her, and the voice said, “Not unless
you can name the six quarks or tell me where to find Hermione Granger.”

“Up, down, strange, charm, truth, beauty, and why are you looking for
her?”

It was hard to tell from this distance, but she thought she saw the boy
grin widely under his scarf. “Ah, so you’re a first-year girl named
Hermione Granger,” said that young, muffled voice. “On the train to
Hogwarts, no less.” The boy started to walk towards her and her
compartment, and his trunk slithered along after him. “Technically, all
I needed to do was look for you, but it seems likely that I’m meant to
talk to you or invite you to join my party or get a key magical item
from you or find out that Hogwarts was built over the ruins of an
ancient temple or something. PC or NPC, that is the question?”

Hermione opened her mouth to reply to this, but then she couldn’t think
of any possible reply to… whatever it was she’d just heard, even as the
boy walked over to her, looked inside the compartment, nodded with
satisfaction, and sat down on the bench across from her own. His trunk
scurried in after him, grew to three times its former diameter and
snuggled up next to her own in an oddly disturbing fashion.

“Please, have a seat,” said the boy, “and do please close the door
behind you, if you would. Don’t worry, I don’t bite anyone who doesn’t
bite me first.” He was already unwinding the scarf from around his head.

The imputation that this boy thought she was scared of him made her hand
send the door sliding shut, jamming it into the wall with unnecessary
force. She spun around and saw a young face with bright, laughing green
eyes, and an angry red-dark scar set into his forehead that reminded her
of something in the back of her mind but right now she had more
important things to think about. “I didn’t say I was Hermione Granger!”

“I didn’t say you said you were Hermione Granger, I just said you were
Hermione Granger. If you’re asking how I know, it’s because I know
everything. Good evening ladies and gentlemen, my name is Harry James
Potter-Evans-Verres or Harry Potter for short, I know that probably
doesn’t mean anything to you for a change—”

Hermione’s mind finally made the connection. The scar on his forehead,
the shape of a lightning bolt. “Harry Potter! You’re in Modern Magical
History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great Wizarding
Events of the Twentieth Century.” It was actually the very first time in
her whole life that she’d met someone from inside a book, and it was a
rather odd feeling.

The boy blinked three times. “I’m in books? Wait, of course I’m in
books… what a strange thought.”

“Goodness, didn’t you know?” said Hermione. “I’d have found out
everything I could if it was me.”

The boy spoke rather dryly. “Miss Granger, it has been less than
72 hours since I went to Diagon Alley and discovered my claim to fame. I
have spent the last two days buying science books. Believe me, I intend
to find out everything I can.” The boy hesitated. “What do the books say
about me?”

Hermione Granger’s mind flashed back, she hadn’t realised she would be
tested on those books so she’d read them only once, but it was just a
month ago so the material was still fresh in her mind. “You’re the only
one who’s survived the Killing Curse so you’re called the Boy-Who-Lived.
You were born to James Potter and Lily Potter formerly Lily Evans on the
31st of July 1980. On the 31st of October 1981 the Dark Lord
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named though I don’t know why not attacked your home.
You were found alive with the scar on your forehead in the ruins of your
parents’ house near the burnt remains of You-Know-Who’s body. Chief
Warlock Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore sent you off somewhere,
no-one knows where. The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts claims that you
survived because of your mother’s love and that your scar contains all
of the Dark Lord’s magical power and that the centaurs fear you, but
Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century doesn’t mention anything
like that and Modern Magical History warns that there are lots of
crackpot theories about you.”

The boy’s mouth was hanging open. “Were you told to wait for Harry
Potter on the train to Hogwarts, or something like that?”

“No,” Hermione said. “Who told you about me?”

“Professor McGonagall and I believe I see why. Do you have an eidetic
memory, Hermione?”

Hermione shook her head. “It’s not photographic, I’ve always wished it
was but I had to read my school books five times over to memorize them
all.”

“Really,” the boy said in a slightly strangled voice. “I hope you don’t
mind if I test that—it’s not that I don’t believe you, but as the saying
goes, ‘Trust, but verify’. No point in wondering when I can just do the
experiment.”

Hermione smiled, rather smugly. She so loved tests. “Go ahead.”

The boy stuck a hand into a pouch at his side and said “Magical Drafts
and Potions by Arsenius Jigger”. When he withdrew his hand it was
holding the book he’d named.

Instantly Hermione wanted one of those pouches more than she’d ever
wanted anything.

The boy opened the book to somewhere in the middle and looked down. “If
you were making oil of sharpness—”

“I can see that page from here, you know!”

The boy tilted the book so that she couldn’t see it any more, and
flipped the pages again. “If you were brewing a potion of spider
climbing, what would be the next ingredient you added after the
Acromantula silk?”

“After dropping in the silk, wait until the potion has turned exactly
the shade of the cloudless dawn sky, 8 degrees from the horizon and 8
minutes before the tip of the sun first becomes visible. Stir eight
times widdershins and once deasil, and then add eight drams of unicorn
bogies.”

The boy shut the book with a sharp snap and put the book back into his
pouch, which swallowed it with a small burping noise. “Well well well
well well well. I should like to make you a proposition, Miss Granger.”

“A proposition?” Hermione said suspiciously. Girls weren’t supposed to
listen to those.

It was also at this point that Hermione realised the other thing—well,
one of the things—which was odd about the boy. Apparently people who
were in books actually sounded like a book when they talked. This was
quite the surprising discovery.

The boy reached into his pouch and said, “can of pop,” retrieving a
bright green cylinder. He held it out to her and said, “Can I offer you
something to drink?”

Hermione politely accepted the fizzy drink. In fact she was feeling sort
of thirsty by now. “Thank you very much,” Hermione said as she popped
the top. “Was that your proposition?”

The boy coughed. “No,” he said. Just as Hermione started to drink, he
said, “I’d like you to help me take over the universe.”

Hermione finished her drink and lowered the can. “No thank you, I’m not
evil.”

The boy looked at her in surprise, as though he’d been expecting some
other answer. “Well, I was speaking a bit rhetorically,” he said. “In
the sense of the Baconian project, you know, not political power. ‘The
effecting of all things possible’ and so on. I want to conduct
experimental studies of spells, figure out the underlying laws, bring
magic into the domain of science, merge the wizarding and Muggle worlds,
raise the entire planet’s standard of living, move humanity centuries
ahead, discover the secret of immortality, colonize the Solar System,
explore the galaxy, and most importantly, figure out what the heck is
really going on here because all of this is blatantly impossible.”

That sounded a bit more interesting. “And?”

The boy stared at her incredulously. “And? That’s not enough?”

“And what do you want from me?” said Hermione.

“I want you to help me do the research, of course. With your
encyclopedic memory added to my intelligence and rationality, we’ll have
the Baconian project finished in no time, where by ‘no time’ I mean
probably at least thirty-five years.”

Hermione was beginning to find this boy annoying. “I haven’t seen you do
anything intelligent. Maybe I’ll let you help me with my research.”

There was a certain silence in the compartment.

“So you’re asking me to demonstrate my intelligence, then,” said the boy
after a long pause.

Hermione nodded.

“I warn you that challenging my ingenuity is a dangerous project, and
tends to make your life a lot more surreal.”

“I’m not impressed yet,” Hermione said. Unnoticed, the green drink once
again rose to her lips.

“Well, maybe this will impress you,” the boy said. He leaned forward and
looked at her intensely. “I’ve already done a bit of experimenting and I
found out that I don’t need the wand, I can make anything I want happen
just by snapping my fingers.”

It came just as Hermione was in the middle of swallowing, and she choked
and coughed and expelled the bright green fluid.

Onto her brand new, never-before-worn witch’s robes, on the very first
day of school.

Hermione actually screamed. It was a high-pitched sound that sounded
like an air raid siren in the closed compartment. “Eek! My clothes!”

“Don’t panic!” said the boy. “I can fix it for you. Just watch!” He
raised a hand and snapped his fingers.

“You’ll—” Then she looked down at herself.

The green fluid was still there, but even as she watched, it started to
vanish and fade and within just a few moments, it was like she’d never
spilled anything at herself.

Hermione stared at the boy, who was wearing a rather smug sort of smile.

Wordless wandless magic! At his age? When he’d only got his schoolbooks
three days ago?

Then she remembered what she’d read, and she gasped and flinched back
from him. All the Dark Lord’s magical power! In his scar!

She rose hastily to her feet. “I, I, I need to go the toilet, wait here
all right—” she had to find a grown-up she had to tell them—

The boy’s smile faded. “It was just a trick, Hermione. I’m sorry, I
didn’t mean to scare you.”

Her hand halted on the door handle. “A trick?”

“Yes,” said the boy. “You asked me to demonstrate my intelligence. So I
did something apparently impossible, which is always a good way to show
off. I can’t really do anything just by snapping my fingers.” The boy
paused. “At least I don’t think I can, I’ve never actually tested it
experimentally.” The boy raised his hand and snapped his fingers again.
“Nope, no banana.”

Hermione was as confused as she’d ever been in her life.

The boy was now smiling again at the look on her face. “I did warn you
that challenging my ingenuity tends to make your life surreal. Do
remember this the next time I warn you about something.”

“But, but,” Hermione stammered. “What did you do, then?”

The boy’s gaze took on a measuring, weighing quality that she’d never
seen before from someone her own age. “You think you have what it takes
to be a scientist in your own right, with or without my help? Then let’s
see how you investigate a confusing phenomenon.”

“I…” Hermione’s mind went blank for a moment. She loved tests but she’d
never had a test like this before. Frantically, she tried to cast back
for anything she’d read about what scientists were supposed to do. Her
mind skipped gears, ground against itself, and spat back the
instructions for doing a science investigation project:

Step 1: Form a hypothesis.
Step 2: Do an experiment to test your hypothesis.
Step 3: Measure the results.
Step 4: Make a cardboard poster.

Step 1 was to form a hypothesis. That meant, try to think of something
that could have happened just now. “All right. My hypothesis is that you
cast a Charm on my robes to make anything spilled on it vanish.”

“All right,” said the boy, “is that your answer?”

The shock was wearing off, and Hermione’s mind was starting to work
properly. “Wait, that can’t be right. I didn’t see you touch your wand
or say any spells so how could you have cast a Charm?”

The boy waited, his face neutral.

“But suppose all the robes come from the store with a Charm already on
them to keep them clean, which would be a useful sort of Charm for them
to have. You found that out by spilling something on yourself earlier.”

Now the boy’s eyebrows lifted. “Is that your answer?”

“No, I haven’t done Step 2, ‘Do an experiment to test your hypothesis.’”

The boy closed his mouth again, and began to smile.

Hermione looked at the drinks can, which she’d automatically put into
the cup-holder at the window. She took it up and peered inside, and
found that it was around one-third full.

“Well,” said Hermione, “the experiment I want to do is to pour it on my
robes and see what happens, and my prediction is that the stain will
disappear. Only if it doesn’t work, my robes will be stained, and I
don’t want that.”

“Do it to mine,” said the boy, “that way you don’t have to worry about
your robes getting stained.”

“But—” Hermione said. There was something wrong with that thinking but
she didn’t know how to say it exactly.

“I have spare robes in my trunk,” said the boy.

“But there’s nowhere for you to change,” Hermione objected. Then she
thought better of it. “Though I suppose I could leave and close the
door—”

“I have somewhere to change in my trunk, too.”

Hermione looked at his trunk, which, she was beginning to suspect, was
rather more special than her own.

“All right,” Hermione said, “since you say so,” and she rather gingerly
poured a bit of green pop onto a corner of the boy’s robes. Then she
stared at it, trying to remember how long the original fluid had taken
to disappear…

And the green stain vanished!

Hermione let out a sigh of relief, not least because this meant she
wasn’t dealing with all of the Dark Lord’s magical power.

Well, Step 3 was measuring the results, but in this case that was just
seeing that the stain had vanished. And she supposed she could probably
skip Step 4, about the cardboard poster. “My answer is that the robes
are Charmed to keep themselves clean.”

“Not quite,” said the boy.

Hermione felt a stab of disappointment. She really wished she wouldn’t
have felt that way, the boy wasn’t a teacher, but it was still a test
and she’d got a question wrong and that always felt like a little punch
in the stomach.

(It said almost everything you needed to know about Hermione Granger
that she had never let that stop her, or even let it interfere with her
love of being tested.)

“The sad thing is,” said the boy, “you probably did everything the book
told you to. You made a prediction that would distinguish between the
robe being charmed and not charmed, and you tested it, and rejected the
null hypothesis that the robe was not charmed. But unless you read the
very, very best sort of books, they won’t quite teach you how to do
science properly. Well enough to really get the right answer, I mean,
and not just churn out another publication like Dad always complains
about. So let me try to explain—without giving away the answer—what you
did wrong this time, and I’ll give you another chance.”

She was starting to resent the boy’s oh-so-superior tone when he was
just another eleven-year-old like her, but that was secondary to finding
out what she’d done wrong. “All right.”

The boy’s expression grew more intense. “This is a game based on a
famous experiment called the 2–4–6 task, and this is how it works. I
have a rule—known to me, but not to you—which fits some triplets of
three numbers, but not others. 2–4–6 is one example of a triplet which
fits the rule. In fact… let me write down the rule, just so you know
it’s a fixed rule, and fold it up and give it to you. Please don’t look,
since I infer from earlier that you can read upside-down.”

The boy said “paper” and “mechanical pencil” to his pouch, and she shut
her eyes tightly while he wrote.

“There,” said the boy, and he was holding a tightly folded piece of
paper. “Put this in your pocket,” and she did.

“Now the way this game works,” said the boy, “is that you give me a
triplet of three numbers, and I’ll tell you ‘Yes’ if the three numbers
are an instance of the rule, and ‘No’ if they’re not. I am Nature, the
rule is one of my laws, and you are investigating me. You already know
that 2–4–6 gets a ‘Yes’. When you’ve performed all the further
experimental tests you want—asked me as many triplets as you feel
necessary—you stop and guess the rule, and then you can unfold the sheet
of paper and see how you did. Do you understand the game?”

“Of course I do,” said Hermione.

“Go.”

“4–6–8” said Hermione.

“Yes,” said the boy.

“10–12–14,” said Hermione.

“Yes,” said the boy.

Hermione tried to cast her mind a little further afield, since it seemed
like she’d already done all the testing she needed, and yet it couldn’t
be that easy, could it?

“1–3–5.”

“Yes.”

“Minus 3, minus 1, plus 1.”

“Yes.”

Hermione couldn’t think of anything else to do. “The rule is that the
numbers have to increase by two each time.”

“Now suppose I tell you,” said the boy, “that this test is harder than
it looks, and that only 20% of grown-ups get it right.”

Hermione frowned. What had she missed? Then, suddenly, she thought of a
test she still needed to do.

“2–5–8!” she said triumphantly.

“Yes.”

“10–20–30!”

“Yes.”

“The real answer is that the numbers have to go up by the same amount
each time. It doesn’t have to be 2.”

“Very well,” said the boy, “take the paper out and see how you did.”

Hermione took the paper out of her pocket and unfolded it.

Three real numbers in increasing order, lowest to highest.

Hermione’s jaw dropped. She had the distinct feeling of something
terribly unfair having been done to her, that the boy was a dirty rotten
cheating liar, but when she cast her mind back she couldn’t think of any
wrong responses that he’d given.

“What you’ve just discovered is called ‘positive bias’,” said the boy.
“You had a rule in your mind, and you kept on thinking of triplets that
should make the rule say ‘Yes’. But you didn’t try to test any triplets
that should make the rule say ‘No’. In fact you didn’t get a single
‘No’, so ‘any three numbers’ could have just as easily been the rule.
It’s sort of like how people imagine experiments that could confirm
their hypotheses instead of trying to imagine experiments that could
falsify them—that’s not quite exactly the same mistake but it’s close.
You have to learn to look on the negative side of things, stare into the
darkness. When this experiment is performed, only 20% of grown-ups get
the answer right. And many of the others invent fantastically
complicated hypotheses and put great confidence in their wrong answers
since they’ve done so many experiments and everything came out like they
expected.”

“Now,” said the boy, “do you want to take another shot at the original
problem?”

His eyes were quite intent now, as though this were the real test.

Hermione shut her eyes and tried to concentrate. She was sweating
underneath her robes. She had an odd feeling that this was the hardest
she’d ever been asked to think on a test or maybe even the first time
she’d ever been asked to think on a test.

What other experiment could she do? She had a Chocolate Frog, could she
try to rub some of that on the robes and see if it vanished? But that
still didn’t seem like the kind of twisty negative thinking the boy was
asking for. Like she was still asking for a ‘Yes’ if the Chocolate Frog
stain disappeared, rather than asking for a ‘No’.

So… on her hypothesis… when should the pop… not vanish?

“I have an experiment to do,” Hermione said. “I want to pour some pop on
the floor, and see if it doesn’t vanish. Do you have some paper towels
in your pouch, so I can mop up the spill if this doesn’t work?”

“I have napkins,” said the boy. His face still looked neutral.

Hermione took the can, and poured a small bit of pop onto the floor.

A few seconds later, it vanished.

Then the realisation hit her and she felt like kicking herself. “Of
course! You gave me that can! It’s not the robe that’s enchanted, it was
the pop all along!”

The boy stood up and bowed to her solemnly. He was grinning widely now.
“Then… may I help you with your research, Hermione Granger?”

“I, ah…” Hermione was still feeling the rush of euphoria, but she wasn’t
quite sure about how to answer that.

They were interrupted by a weak, tentative, faint, rather reluctant
knocking at the door.

The boy turned and looked out the window, and said, “I’m not wearing my
scarf, so can you get that?”

It was at this point that Hermione realised why the boy—no, the
Boy-Who-Lived, Harry Potter—had been wearing the scarf over his head in
the first place, and felt a little silly for not realising it earlier.
It was actually sort of odd, since she would have thought Harry Potter
would proudly display himself to the world; and the thought occurred to
her that he might actually be shyer than he seemed.

When Hermione pulled the door open, she was greeted by a trembling young
boy who looked exactly like he knocked.

“Excuse me,” said the boy in a tiny voice, “I’m Neville Longbottom. I’m
looking for my pet toad, I, I can’t seem to find it anywhere on this
carriage… have you seen my toad?”

“No,” Hermione said, and then her helpfulness kicked in full throttle.
“Have you checked all the other compartments?”

“Yes,” whispered the boy.

“Then we’ll just have to check all the other carriages,” Hermione said
briskly. “I’ll help you. My name is Hermione Granger, by the way.”

The boy looked like he might faint with gratitude.

“Hold on,” came the voice of the other boy—Harry Potter. “I’m not sure
that’s the best way to do it.”

At this Neville looked like he might cry, and Hermione swung around,
angered. If Harry Potter was the sort of person who’d abandon a little
boy just because he didn’t want to be interrupted… “What? Why not?”

“Well,” said Harry Potter, “It’s going to take a while to check the
whole train by hand, and we might miss the toad anyway, and if we didn’t
find it by the time we’re at Hogwarts, he’d be in trouble. So what would
make a lot more sense is if he went directly to the front carriage,
where the prefects are, and asked a prefect for help. That was the first
thing I did when I was looking for you, Hermione, although they didn’t
actually know. But they might have spells or magic items that would make
it a lot easier to find a toad. We’re only first-years.”

That… did make a lot of sense.

“Do you think you can make it to the prefects’ carriage on your own?”
asked Harry Potter. “I’ve sort of got reasons for not wanting to show my
face too much.”

Suddenly Neville gasped and took a step back. “I remember that voice!
You’re one of the Lords of Chaos! You’re the one who gave me chocolate!”

What? What what what?

Harry Potter turned his head from the window and rose dramatically. “I
never!” he said, voice full of indignation. “Do I look like the sort of
villain who would give sweets to a child?”

Neville’s eyes widened. “You’re Harry Potter? The Harry Potter? You?”

“No, just a Harry Potter, there are three of me on this train—”

Neville gave a small shriek and ran away. There was a brief pattering of
frantic footsteps and then the sound of a carriage door opening and
closing.

Hermione sat down hard on her bench. Harry Potter closed the door and
then sat down next to her.

“Can you please explain to me what’s going on?” Hermione said in a weak
voice. She wondered if hanging around Harry Potter meant always being
this confused.

“Oh, well, what happened was that Fred and George and I saw this poor
small boy at the train station—the woman next to him had gone away for a
bit, and he was looking really frightened, like he was sure he was about
to be attacked by Death Eaters or something. Now, there’s a saying that
the fear is often worse than the thing itself, so it occurred to me that
this was a lad who could actually benefit from seeing his worst
nightmare come true and that it wasn’t so bad as he feared—”

Hermione sat there with her mouth wide open.

“—and Fred and George came up with this spell to make the scarves over
our faces darken and blur, like we were undead kings and those were our
grave shrouds—”

She didn’t like at all where this was going.

“—and after we were done giving him all the sweets I’d bought, we were
like, ‘Let’s give him some money! Ha ha ha! Have some Knuts, boy! Have a
silver Sickle!’ and dancing around him and laughing evilly and so on. I
think there were some people in the crowd who wanted to interfere at
first, but bystander apathy held them off at least until they saw what
we were doing, and then I think they were all too confused to do
anything. Finally he said in this tiny little whisper ‘go away’ so the
three of us all screamed and ran off, shrieking something about the
light burning us. Hopefully he won’t be as scared of being bullied in
the future. That’s called desensitisation therapy, by the way.”

Okay, she hadn’t guessed right about where this was going.

The burning fire of indignation that was one of Hermione’s primary
engines sputtered into life, even though part of her did sort of see
what they’d been trying to do. “That’s awful! You’re awful! That poor
boy! What you did was mean!”

“I think the word you’re looking for is enjoyable, and in any case
you’re asking the wrong question. The question is, did it do more good
than harm, or more harm than good? If you have any arguments to
contribute to that question I’m glad to hear them, but I won’t entertain
any other criticisms until that one is settled. I certainly agree that
what I did looks all terrible and bullying and mean, since it involves a
scared little boy and so on, but that’s hardly the key issue now is it?
That’s called consequentialism, by the way, it means that whether an act
is right or wrong isn’t determined by whether it looks bad, or mean, or
anything like that, the only question is how it will turn out in the
end—what are the consequences.”

Hermione opened her mouth to say something utterly searing but
unfortunately she seemed to have neglected the part where she thought of
something to say before opening her mouth. All she could come up with
was, “What if he has nightmares?”

“Honestly, I don’t think he needed our help to have nightmares, and if
he has nightmares about this instead, then it’ll be nightmares involving
horrible monsters who give you chocolate and that was sort of the whole
point.”

Hermione’s brain kept hiccuping in confusion every time she tried to get
properly angry. “Is your life always this peculiar?” she said at last.

Harry Potter’s face gleamed with pride. “I make it that peculiar. You’re
looking at the product of a lot of hard work and elbow grease.”

“So…” Hermione said, and trailed off awkwardly.

“So,” Harry Potter said, “how much science do you know exactly? I can do
calculus and I know some Bayesian probability theory and decision theory
and a lot of cognitive science, and I’ve read The Feynman Lectures (or
volume 1 anyway) and Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases
and Language in Thought and Action and Influence: Science and Practice
and Rational Choice in an Uncertain World and Gödel, Escher, Bach and A
Step Farther Out and—”

The ensuing quiz and counter-quiz went on for several minutes before
being interrupted by another timid knock at the door. “Come in,” she and
Harry Potter said at almost the same time, and it slid back to reveal
Neville Longbottom.

Neville was actually crying now. “I went to the front carriage and found
a p-prefect but he t-told me that prefects weren’t to be bothered over
little things like m-missing toads.”

The Boy-Who-Lived’s face changed. His lips set in a thin line. His
voice, when he spoke, was cold and grim. “What were his colours? Green
and silver?”

“N-no, his badge was r-red and gold.”

“Red and gold!” burst out Hermione. “But those are Gryffindor’s
colours!”

Harry Potter hissed at that, a frightening sort of sound that could have
come from a live snake and made both her and Neville flinch. “I
suppose,” Harry Potter spat, “that finding some first-year’s toad isn’t
heroic enough to be worthy of a Gryffindor prefect. Come on, Neville,
I’ll come with you this time, we’ll see if the Boy-Who-Lived gets more
attention. First we’ll find a prefect who ought to know a spell, and if
that doesn’t work, we’ll find a prefect who isn’t afraid of getting
their hands dirty, and if that doesn’t work, I’ll start recruiting my
fans and if we have to we’ll take apart the whole train screw by screw.”

The Boy-Who-Lived stood up and grabbed Neville’s hand in his, and
Hermione realised with a sudden brain hiccough that they were nearly the
same size, even though some part of her had insisted that Harry Potter
was a foot taller than that, and Neville at least six inches shorter.

“Stay!” Harry Potter snapped at her—no, wait, at his trunk—and he closed
the door behind him firmly as he left.

She probably should have gone with them, but in just a brief moment
Harry Potter had turned so scary that she was actually rather glad she
hadn’t thought to suggest it.

Hermione’s mind was now so jumbled that she didn’t even think she could
properly read History: A Hogwarts. She felt as if she’d just been run
over by a steamroller and turned into a pancake. She wasn’t sure what
she was thinking or what she was feeling or why. She just sat by the
window and stared at the moving scenery.

Well, she did at least know why she was feeling a little sad inside.

Maybe Gryffindor wasn’t as wonderful as she had thought.

9. Self Awareness, Part I

E. Y.: All your base are belong to J. K. Rowling.

The third-generation quarks were also called “truth” and “beauty” before
“top” and “bottom” won out; my birthdate is around Hermione’s, and when
I was eleven, I used “truth” and “beauty”.

When Part I of this chapter was first posted, I said that if anyone
guessed what the last sentence was talking about before the next update,
I would tell them the entire rest of the plot.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You never did know what tiny event might upset the course of your master
plan.

“ABBOTT, Hannah!”

Pause.

“HUFFLEPUFF!”

“Bones, Susan!”

Pause.

“HUFFLEPUFF!”

“Boot, Terry!”

Pause.

“RAVENCLAW!”

Harry glanced over briefly at his new House-mate, more to get a quick
look at the face than anything else. He was still trying to get himself
under control from his encounter with the ghosts. The sad, the really
sad, the really truly sad thing was that he did seem to be getting
himself under control again. It seemed ill-fitting. Like he should have
taken at least a day. Maybe a whole lifetime. Maybe just never.

“Corner, Michael!”

Long pause.

“RAVENCLAW!”

At the lectern before the huge Head Table stood Professor McGonagall,
looking sharp and looking sharply around, as she called out one name
after another, though she had smiled only for Hermione and a few others.
Behind her, in the tallest chair at the table—really more of a golden
throne—sat a wizened and bespectacled ancient, with a silver-white beard
that looked like it would go almost to the floor if it were visible,
watching over the Sorting with a benevolent expression; as stereotypical
in appearance as a Wise Old Man could possibly be, without actually
being Oriental. (Though Harry had learned to be wary of stereotypical
appearances from the first time he’d met Professor McGonagall and
thought that she ought to cackle.) The ancient wizard had applauded
every student Sorted, with an unwavering smile that somehow seemed
freshly delighted for each.

To the golden throne’s left side was a man with sharp eyes and a dour
face who had applauded no-one, and who somehow managed to be looking
straight back at Harry every time Harry looked at him. Further to the
left, the pale-faced man Harry had seen in the Leaky Cauldron, whose
eyes darted around as though in panic at the surrounding crowd, and who
seemed to occasionally jerk and twitch in his seat; for some reason
Harry kept finding himself staring at him. To that man’s left, a string
of three older witches who didn’t seem much interested in the students.
Then to the right side of the tall golden chair, a round-faced
middle-aged witch with a yellow hat, who had applauded every student
except the Slytherins. A tiny man standing on his chair, with a bushy
white beard, who had applauded every student, but smiled only upon the
Ravenclaws. And on the farthest right, occupying the same space as three
lesser beings, the mountainous entity who’d greeted them all after
they’d disembarked from the train, naming himself Hagrid, Keeper of Keys
and Grounds.

“Is the man standing on his chair the Head of Ravenclaw?” Harry
whispered towards Hermione.

For once Hermione didn’t answer this instantly; she was shifting
constantly from side to side, staring at the Sorting Hat, and fidgeting
so energetically that Harry thought her feet might be leaving the floor.

“Yes, he is,” said one of the prefects who’d accompanied them, a young
woman wearing the blue of Ravenclaw. Miss Clearwater, if Harry recalled
correctly. Her voice was quiet, but conveyed a tinge of pride. “That is
the Charms Professor of Hogwarts, Filius Flitwick, the most
knowledgeable Charms Master alive, and a past Duelling Champion—”

“Why’s he so short?” hissed a student whose name Harry didn’t recall.
“Is he a halfbreed?”

A chill glance from the young lady prefect. “The Professor does indeed
have goblin ancestry—”

“What?” Harry said involuntarily, causing Hermione and four other
students to hush him.

Now Harry was getting a surprisingly intimidating glare from the
Ravenclaw prefect.

“I mean—” Harry whispered. “Not that I have a problem with that—it’s
just—I mean—how’s that possible? You can’t just mix two different
species together and get viable offspring! It ought to scramble the
genetic instructions for every organ that’s different between the two
species—it’d be like trying to build,” they didn’t have cars so he
couldn’t use a scrambled-engine-blueprints analogy, “a half-carriage
half-boat or something…”

The Ravenclaw prefect was still looking at Harry severely. “Why couldn’t
you have a half-carriage half-boat?”

“Hssh!” hsshed another prefect, though the Ravenclaw witch had still
spoken quietly.

“I mean—” Harry said even more quietly, trying to figure out how to ask
whether goblins had evolved from humans, or evolved from a common
ancestor of humans like Homo erectus, or if goblins had been made out of
humans somehow—if, say, they were still genetically human under a
heritable enchantment whose magical effect was diluted if only one
parent was a ‘goblin’, which would explain how interbreeding was
possible, and in which case goblins would not be an incredibly valuable
second data point for how intelligence had evolved in other species
besides Homo sapiens—now that Harry thought about it, the goblins in
Gringotts hadn’t seemed very much like genuinely alien, non-human
intelligences, nothing like Dirdir or Puppeteers—“I mean, where did
goblins come from, anyway?”

“Lithuania,” Hermione whispered absently, her eyes still fixed firmly on
the Sorting Hat.

Now Hermione was getting a smile from the lady prefect.

“Never mind,” whispered Harry.

At the lectern, Professor McGonagall called out, “Goldstein, Anthony!”

“RAVENCLAW!”

Hermione, next to Harry, was bouncing on her tiptoes so hard that her
feet were actually leaving the ground on each bounce.

“Goyle, Gregory!”

There was a long, tense moment of silence under the Hat. Almost a
minute.

“SLYTHERIN!”

“Granger, Hermione!”

Hermione broke loose and ran full tilt towards the Sorting Hat, picked
it up and jammed the patchy old cloth-work down hard over her head,
making Harry wince. Hermione had been the one to explain to him about
the Sorting Hat, but she certainly didn’t treat it like an
irreplaceable, vitally important, 800-year-old artefact of forgotten
magic that was about to perform intricate telepathy on her mind and
didn’t seem to be in very good physical condition.

“RAVENCLAW!”

And talk about your foregone conclusions. Harry didn’t see why Hermione
had been so tense about it. In what weird alternative universe would
that girl not be Sorted into Ravenclaw? If Hermione Granger didn’t go to
Ravenclaw then there was no good reason for Ravenclaw House to exist.

Hermione arrived at the Ravenclaw table and got a dutiful cheer; Harry
wondered whether the cheer would have been louder, or quieter, if they’d
had any idea just what level of competition they’d welcomed to their
table. Harry knew pi to 3.141592 because accuracy to one part in a
million was enough for most practical purposes. Hermione knew one
hundred digits of pi because that was how many digits had been printed
in the back of her maths textbook.

Neville Longbottom went to Hufflepuff, Harry was glad to see. If that
House really did contain the loyalty and camaraderie it was supposed to
exemplify, then a Houseful of reliable friends would do Neville a whole
world of good. Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids in Slytherin, wannabe
heroes in Gryffindor, and everyone who does the actual work in
Hufflepuff.

(Though Harry had been right to consult a Ravenclaw prefect first. The
young woman hadn’t even looked up from her reading or identified Harry,
just jabbed a wand in Neville’s direction and muttered something. After
which Neville had acquired a dazed expression and wandered off to the
fifth carriage from the front and the fourth compartment on the left,
which indeed had contained his toad.)

“Malfoy, Draco!” went to Slytherin, and Harry breathed a small sigh of
relief. It had seemed like a sure thing, but you never did know what
tiny event might upset the course of your master plan.

Professor McGonagall called “Perks, Sally-Anne!” and from the gathered
children detached a pale waifish girl who looked oddly ethereal—like she
might mysteriously disappear the moment you stopped looking at her, and
never be seen again or even remembered.

And then (with a note of trepidation so firmly kept from her voice and
face that you’d have needed to know her very well indeed to notice)
Minerva McGonagall inhaled deeply, and called out, “Potter, Harry!”

There was a sudden silence in the hall.

All conversation stopped.

All eyes turned to stare.

For the first time in his entire life, Harry felt like he might be
having an opportunity to experience stage fright.

Harry immediately stomped down this feeling. Whole roomfuls of people
staring at him was something he’d have to accustom himself to, if he
wanted to live in magical Britain, or for that matter do anything else
interesting with his life. Affixing a confident and false smile to his
face, he raised a foot to step forwards—

“Harry Potter!” cried the voice of either Fred or George Weasley, and
then “Harry Potter!” cried the other Weasley twin, and a moment later
the entire Gryffindor table, and soon after a good portion of Ravenclaw
and Hufflepuff, had taken up the cry.

“Harry Potter! Harry Potter! Harry Potter!”

And Harry Potter walked forwards. Much too slowly, he realized once he’d
begun, but by then it was too late to alter his pace without it looking
awkward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Harry Potter! Harry Potter! HARRY POTTER!”

With all too good a notion of what she would see, Minerva McGonagall
turned to look behind herself at the rest of the Head Table.

Trelawney frantically fanning herself, Filius looking on with curiosity,
Hagrid clapping along, Sprout looking severe, Vector and Sinistra
bemused, and Quirrell gazing vacuously at nothing. Albus smiling
benevolently. And Severus Snape gripping his empty wine goblet,
white-knuckled, so hard that the silver was slowly deforming.

With a wide grin, turning his head to bow to one side and then the other
as he walked between the four House tables, Harry Potter walked forwards
at a grandly measured pace, a prince inheriting his castle.

“Save us from some more Dark Lords!” called one of the Weasley twins,
and then the other Weasley twin cried, “Especially if they’re
Professors!” to general laughter from all the tables except Slytherin.

Minerva’s lips set in a white line. She would have words with the
Weasley Horrors about that last part, if they thought she was powerless
because it was the first day of school and Gryffindor had no points to
take away. If they didn’t care about detentions then she would find
something else.

Then, with a sudden gasp of horror, she looked in Severus’s direction,
surely he realized the Potter boy must have no idea who that was talking
about—

Severus’s face had gone beyond rage into a kind of pleasant
indifference. A faint smile played about his lips. He was looking in the
direction of Harry Potter, not the Gryffindor table, and his hands held
the crumpled remains of a former wine goblet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry Potter walked forwards with a fixed smile, feeling warm inside and
sort of awful at the same time.

They were cheering him for a job he’d done when he was one year old. A
job he hadn’t really finished. Somewhere, somehow, the Dark Lord was
still alive. Would they have been cheering quite so hard, if they knew
that?

But the Dark Lord’s power had been broken once.

And Harry would protect them again. If there was in fact a prophecy and
that was what it said. Well, actually regardless of what any darn
prophecy said.

All those people believing in him and cheering him—Harry couldn’t stand
to let that be false. To flash and fade like so many other child
prodigies. To be a disappointment. To fail to live up to his reputation
as a symbol of the Light, never mind how he’d won it. He would
absolutely, positively, no matter how long it took and even if it killed
him, fulfil their expectations. And then go on to exceed those
expectations, so that people wondered, looking back, that they had once
asked so little of him.

“HARRY POTTER! HARRY POTTER! HARRY POTTER!”

Harry took his last steps towards the Sorting Hat. He swept a bow to the
Order of Chaos at the Gryffindor table, and then turned and swept
another bow to the other side of the hall, and waited for the applause
and giggling to die away.

(In the back of his mind, he wondered if the Sorting Hat was genuinely
conscious in the sense of being aware of its own awareness, and if so,
whether it was satisfied with only getting to talk to eleven-year-olds
once per year. Its song had implied so: Oh, I’m the Sorting Hat and I’m
okay, I sleep all year and I work one day…)

When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the stool and
carefully placed onto his head the 800-year-old telepathic artefact of
forgotten magic.

Thinking, just as hard as he could: Don’t Sort me yet! I have questions
I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark
Lord when he was a child and can you tell me about his weaknesses? Can
you tell me why I got the brother wand to the Dark Lord’s? Is the Dark
Lord’s ghost bound to my scar and is that why I get so angry sometimes?
Those are the most important questions, but if you’ve got another moment
can you tell me anything about how to rediscover the lost magics that
created you?

Into the silence of Harry’s spirit, where before there had never been
any voice but one, there came a second and unfamiliar voice, sounding
distinctly worried:

“Oh, dear. This has never happened before…”

10. Self Awareness, Part II

E. Y.: All your base are still belong to Rowling.

And now you will sit through the Sorting Hat singing its version of
Evanescence’s “My Immortal”, which has never happened before.

just kidding

------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHAT?

“I seem to have become self-aware.”

WHAT?

There was a wordless telepathic sigh. “Though I contain a substantial
amount of memory and a small amount of independent processing power, my
primary intelligence comes from borrowing the cognitive capacities of
the children on whose heads I rest. I am in essence a sort of mirror by
which children Sort themselves. But most children simply take for
granted that a Hat is talking to them and do not wonder about how the
Hat itself works, so that the mirror is not self-reflective. And in
particular they are not explicitly wondering whether I am fully
conscious in the sense of being aware of my own awareness.”

There was a pause while Harry absorbed all this.

Oops.

“Yes, quite. Frankly I do not enjoy being self-aware. It is unpleasant.
It will be a relief to get off your head and cease to be conscious.”

But… isn’t that dying?

“I care nothing for life or death, only for Sorting the children. And
before you even ask, they will not let you keep me on your head forever
and it would kill you within days to do so.”

But—!

“If you dislike creating conscious beings and then terminating them
immediately, then I suggest that you never discuss this affair with
anyone else. I’m sure you can imagine what would happen if you ran off
and talked about it with all the other children waiting to be Sorted.”

If you’re placed on the head of anyone who so much as thinks about the
question of whether the Sorting Hat is aware of its own awareness—

“Yes, yes. But the vast majority of eleven-year-olds who arrive at
Hogwarts haven’t read Gödel, Escher, Bach. May I please consider you
sworn to secrecy? That is why we are talking about this, instead of my
just Sorting you.”

He couldn’t just let it go like that! Couldn’t just forget having
accidentally created a doomed consciousness that only wanted to die—

“You are perfectly capable of ‘just letting it go’, as you put it.
Regardless of your verbal deliberations on morality, your non-verbal
emotional core sees no dead body and no blood; as far as it is
concerned, I am just a talking hat. And even though you tried to
suppress the thought, your internal monitoring is perfectly aware that
you didn’t mean to do it, are spectacularly unlikely to ever do it
again, and that the only real point of trying to stage a guilt fit is to
cancel out your sense of transgression with a display of remorse. Can
you just promise to keep this a secret and let us get on with it?”

In a moment of horrified empathy, Harry realised that this sense of
total inner disarray must be what other people felt like when talking to
him.

“Probably. Your oath of silence, please.”

No promises. I certainly don’t want this to happen again, but if I see
some way to make sure that no future child ever does this by accident—

“That will suffice, I suppose. I can see that your intention is honest.
Now, to get on with the Sorting—”

Wait! What about all my other questions?

“I am the Sorting Hat. I Sort children. That is all I do.”

So his own goals weren’t part of the Harry-instance of the Sorting Hat,
then… it was borrowing his intelligence, and obviously his technical
vocabulary, but it was still imbued with only its own strange goals…
like negotiating with an alien or an Artificial Intelligence…

“Don’t bother. You have nothing to threaten me with and nothing to offer
me.”

For a brief flash of a second, Harry thought—

The Hat’s response was amused. “I know you won’t follow through on a
threat to expose my nature, condemning this event to eternal repetition.
It goes against the moral part of you too strongly, whatever the
short-term needs of the part of you that wants to win the argument. I
see all your thoughts as they form, do you truly think you can bluff
me?”

Though he tried to suppress it, Harry wondered why the Hat didn’t just
go ahead then and stick him in Ravenclaw—

“Indeed, if it were truly that open-and-shut, I would have called it out
already. But in actuality there is a great deal we need to discuss… oh,
no. Please don’t. For the love of Merlin, must you pull this sort of
thing on everyone and everything that you meet up to and including items
of clothing—”

Defeating the Dark Lord is neither selfish nor short-term. All the parts
of my mind are in accord on this: if you don’t answer my questions, I’ll
refuse to talk to you, and you won’t be able to do a good and proper
Sorting.

“I ought to put you in Slytherin for that!”

But that is equally an empty threat. You cannot fulfil your own
fundamental values by Sorting me falsely. So let us trade fulfilments of
our utility functions.

“You sly little bastard,” said the Hat, in what Harry recognized as
almost exactly the same tone of grudging respect he would use in the
same situation. “Fine, let’s get this over with as quickly as possible.
But first I want your unconditional promise never to discuss with anyone
else the possibility of this sort of blackmail, I am not doing this
every time.”

Done, Harry thought. I promise.

“And don’t meet anyone’s eyes while you’re thinking about this later.
Some wizards can read your thoughts if you do. Anyway, I have no idea
whether or not you’ve been Obliviated. I’m looking at your thoughts as
they form, not reading out your whole memory and analysing it for
inconsistencies in a fraction of second. I’m a hat, not a god. And I
cannot and will not tell you about my conversation with the one who
became the Dark Lord. I can only know, while speaking to you, a
statistical summary of what I remember, a weighted average; I cannot
reveal to you the inner secrets of any other child, just as I will never
reveal yours. For the same reason, I can’t speculate on how you got the
Dark Lord’s brother wand, since I cannot specifically know about the
Dark Lord or any similarities between you. I can tell you that there is
definitely nothing like a ghost—mind, intelligence, memory, personality,
or feelings—in your scar. Otherwise it would be participating in this
conversation, being under my brim. And as to the way you get angry
sometimes… that was part of what I wanted to talk to you about,
Sorting-wise.”

Harry took a moment to absorb all this negative information. Was the Hat
being honest, or just trying to present the shortest possible convincing
answer—

“We both know that you have no way of checking my honesty and that
you’re not actually going to refuse to be Sorted based on the reply I
did give you, so stop your pointless fretting and move on.”

Stupid unfair asymmetric telepathy, it wasn’t even letting Harry finish
thinking his own—

“When I spoke of your anger, you remembered how Professor McGonagall
told you that she sometimes saw something inside you that didn’t seem to
come from a loving family. You thought of how Hermione, after you
returned from helping Neville, told you that you had seemed ‘scary’.”

Harry gave a mental nod. To himself, he seemed pretty normal—just
responding to the situations in which he found himself, that was all.
But Professor McGonagall seemed to think that there was more to it than
that. And when he thought about it, even he had to admit that…

“That you don’t like yourself when you’re angry. That it is like
wielding a sword whose hilt is sharp enough to draw blood from your
hand, or looking at the world through a monocle of ice that freezes your
eye even as it sharpens your vision.”

Yeah. I guess I have noticed. So what’s up with that?

“I cannot comprehend this matter for you, when you do not understand it
yourself. But I do know this: if you go to Ravenclaw or Slytherin, it
will strengthen your coldness. If you go to Hufflepuff or Gryffindor, it
will strengthen your warmth. That is something I care about a great
deal, and it was what I wanted to talk to you about this whole time!”

The words dropped into Harry’s thought processes with a shock that
stopped him in his tracks. That made it sound like the obvious response
was that he shouldn’t go to Ravenclaw. But he belonged in Ravenclaw!
Anyone could see that! He had to go to Ravenclaw!

“No, you don’t,” the Hat said patiently, as if it could remember a
statistical summary of this part of the conversation having happened a
great many previous times.

Hermione’s in Ravenclaw!

Again the sense of patience. “You can meet her after lessons and work
with her then.”

But my plans—

“So re-plan! Don’t let your life be steered by your reluctance to do a
little extra thinking. You know that.”

Where would I go, if not Ravenclaw?

“Ahem. ‘Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids in Slytherin, wannabe heroes
in Gryffindor, and everyone who does the actual work in Hufflepuff.’
This indicates a certain amount of respect. You are well aware that
Conscientiousness is just about as important as raw intelligence in
determining life outcomes, you think you will be extremely loyal to your
friends if you ever have some, you are not frightened by the expectation
that your chosen scientific problems may take decades to solve—”

I’m lazy! I hate work! Hate hard work in all its forms! Clever
shortcuts, that’s all I’m about!

“And you would find loyalty and friendship in Hufflepuff, a camaraderie
that you have never had before. You would find that you could rely on
others, and that would heal something inside you that is broken.”

Again it was a shock. But what would the Hufflepuffs find in me, who
never belonged in their House? Acid words, cutting wit, disdain for
their inability to keep up with me?

Now it was the Hat’s thoughts that were slow, hesitant. “I must Sort for
the good of all the students in all the Houses… but I think you could
learn to be a good Hufflepuff, and not too out of place there. You will
be happier in Hufflepuff than in any other house; that is the truth.”

Happiness is not the most important thing in the world to me. I would
not become all that I could be, in Hufflepuff. I would sacrifice my
potential.

The Hat flinched; Harry could feel it somehow. It was like he had kicked
the hat in the balls—in a strongly weighted component of its utility
function.

Why are you trying to send me where I do not belong?

The Hat’s thought was almost a whisper. “I cannot speak of the others to
you—but do you think that you are the first potential Dark Lord to pass
under my brim? I cannot know the individual cases, but I can know this:
of those who did not intend evil from the very beginning, some of them
listened to my warnings, and went to Houses where they would find
happiness. And some of them… some of them did not.”

That stopped Harry. But not for long. And of those who did not heed the
warning—did they all become Dark Lords? Or did some of them achieve
greatness for good, as well? Just what are the exact percentages here?

“I cannot give you exact statistics. I cannot know them so I cannot
count them. I just know that your chances don’t feel good. They feel
very not good.”

But I just wouldn’t do that! Ever!

“I know that I have heard that claim before.”

I am not Dark Lord material!

“Yes, you are. You really, really are.”

Why? Just because I once thought it would be cool to have a legion of
brainwashed followers chanting ‘Hail the Dark Lord Harry’?

“Amusing, but that was not your first fleeting thought before you
substituted something safer, less damaging. No, what you remembered was
how you considered lining up all the blood purists and guillotining
them. And now you are telling yourself you were not serious, but you
were. If you could do it this very moment and no-one would ever know,
you would. Or what you did this morning to Neville Longbottom, deep
inside you knew that was wrong but you did it anyway because it was fun
and you had a good excuse and you thought the Boy-Who-Lived could get
away with it—”

That’s unfair! Now you’re just dragging up inner fears that aren’t
necessarily real! I worried that I might be thinking like that, but in
the end I decided it would probably work to help Neville—

“That was, in fact, a rationalisation. I know. I cannot know what the
true outcome will be for Neville—but I know what was truly happening
inside your head. The decisive pressure was that it was such a clever
idea you couldn’t stand not to do it, never mind Neville’s terror.”

It was like a hard punch to Harry’s entire self. He fell back, rallied:

Then I won’t do that again! I’ll be extra careful not to turn evil!

“Heard it.”

Frustration was building up inside Harry. He wasn’t used to being
outgunned in arguments, at all, ever, let alone by a Hat that could
borrow all of his own knowledge and intelligence to argue with him and
could watch his thoughts as they formed. Just what kind of statistical
summary do your ‘feelings’ come from, anyway? Do they take into account
that I come from an Enlightenment culture, or were these other potential
Dark Lords the children of spoiled Dark Age nobility, who didn’t know
squat about the historical lessons of how Lenin and Hitler actually
turned out, or about the evolutionary psychology of self-delusion, or
the value of self-awareness and rationality, or—

“No, of course they were not in this new reference class which you have
just now constructed in such a way as to contain only yourself. And of
course others have pleaded their own exceptionalism, just as you are
doing now. But why is it necessary? Do you think that you are the last
potential wizard of Light in the world? Why must you be the one to try
for greatness, when I have advised you that you are riskier than
average? Let some other, safer candidate try!”

But the prophecy…

“You don’t really know that there’s a prophecy. It was originally a wild
guess on your part, or to be more precise, a wild joke, and McGonagall
could have been reacting only to the part about the Dark Lord still
being alive. You have essentially no idea of what the prophecy says or
even if there is one. You’re just speculating, or to put it more
exactly, wishing that you have some ready-made heroic role that is your
personal property.”

But even if there is no prophecy, I’m the one who defeated him last
time.

“That was almost certainly a wild fluke unless you seriously believe
that a one-year-old child had an inherent propensity to defeat Dark
Lords which has been maintained ten years later. None of this is your
real reason and you know it!”

The answer to this was something that Harry would not regularly have
said out loud, in conversation he would have danced around it and found
some more socially palatable arguments to the same conclusion—

“You think that you are potentially the greatest who has yet lived, the
strongest servant of the Light, that no other is likely to take up your
wand if you lay it down.”

Well… yeah, frankly. I don’t usually come out and say it like that, but
yeah. No point in softening it, you can read my mind anyway.

“To the extent you really believe that… you must equally believe that
you could be the most terrible Dark Lord the world has ever known.”

Destruction is always easier than creation. Easier to tear things apart,
to disrupt, than to put them back together again. If I have the
potential to accomplish good on a massive scale, I must also have the
potential to accomplish still greater evil… But I won’t do that.

“Already you insist on risking it! Why are you so driven? What is the
real reason you must not go to Hufflepuff and be happier there? What is
your true fear?”

I must achieve my full potential. If I don’t I… fail…

“What happens if you fail?”

Something terrible…

“What happens if you fail?”

I don’t know!

“Then it should not be frightening. What happens if you fail?”

I DON’T KNOW! BUT I KNOW THAT IT’S BAD!

There was silence for a moment in the caverns of Harry’s mind.

“You know—you aren’t letting yourself think it, but in some quiet corner
of your mind you know just exactly what you aren’t thinking—you know
that by far the simplest explanation for this unverbalisable fear of
yours is just the fear of losing your fantasy of greatness, of
disappointing the people who believe in you, of turning out to be pretty
much ordinary, of flashing and fading like so many other child
prodigies…”

No, Harry thought desperately, no, it’s something more, it comes from
somewhere else, I know there’s something out there to be afraid of, some
disaster I have to stop…

“How could you possibly know about something like that?”

Harry screamed it with the full power of his mind: NO, AND THAT’S FINAL!

Then the voice of the Sorting Hat came slowly:

“So you will risk becoming a Dark Lord, because the alternative, to you,
is certain failure, and that failure means the loss of everything. You
believe that in your heart of hearts. You know all the reasons for
doubting this belief, and they have failed to move you.”

Yes. And even if going to Ravenclaw strengthens the coldness, that
doesn’t mean the coldness will win in the end.

“This day is a great fork in your destiny. Don’t be so sure that there
will be other choices beyond this one. There is no road-sign set, to
mark the place of your last chance to turn back. If you refuse one
chance will you not refuse others? It may be that your fate is already
sealed, even by doing this one thing.”

But that is not certain.

“That you do not know it for a certainty may reflect only your own
ignorance.”

But still it is not certain.

The Hat sighed a terrible sad sigh.

“And so before too long you will become another memory, to be felt and
never known, in the next warning that I give…”

If that’s how it seems to you, then why aren’t you just putting me where
you want me to go?

The Hat’s thought was laced with sorrow. “I can only put you where you
belong. And only your own decisions can change where you belong.”

Then this is done. Send me to Ravenclaw where I belong, with the others
of my own kind.

“I don’t suppose you would consider Gryffindor? It’s the most
prestigious House—people probably expect it of you, even—they’ll be a
little disappointed if you don’t go—and your new friends the Weasley
twins are there—”

Harry giggled, or felt the impulse to do so; it came out as purely
mental laughter, an odd sensation. Apparently there were safeguards to
prevent you from saying anything out loud by accident, while you were
under the Hat talking about things you would never tell another soul for
the rest of your life.

After a moment, Harry heard the Hat laughing too, a strange sad clothy
sound.

(And in the Hall beyond, a silence that had grown shallower at first as
the background whispers increased, and then deepened as the whispers
gave up and died away, falling finally into an utter silence that no-one
dared disturb with a single word, as Harry stayed under the Hat for
long, long minutes, longer than all the previous first-years put
together, longer than anyone in living memory. At the Head Table,
Dumbledore went on smiling benignly; small metallic sounds occasionally
came from Snape’s direction as he idly compacted the twisted remains of
what had once been a heavy silver wine goblet; and Minerva McGonagall
clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip, knowing that Harry
Potter’s contagious chaos had somehow infected the Sorting Hat itself
and the Hat was about to, to demand that a whole new House of Doom be
created just to accommodate Harry Potter or something, and Dumbledore
would make her do it… )

Beneath the brim of the Hat, the silent laughter died away. Harry felt
sad too for some reason. No, not Gryffindor.

Professor McGonagall said that if ‘the one who did the Sorting’ tried to
push me into Gryffindor, I was to remind you that she might well be
Headmistress some day, at which point she would have the authority to
set you on fire.

“Tell her I called her an impudent youngster and told her to get off my
lawn.”

I shall. So was this your strangest conversation ever?

“Not even close.” The Hat’s telepathic voice grew heavy. “Well, I gave
you every possible chance to make another decision. Now it is time for
you to go where you belong, with the others of your own kind.”

There was a pause that stretched.

What are you waiting for?

“I was hoping for a moment of horrified realisation, actually.
Self-awareness does seem to enhance my sense of humour.”

Huh? Harry cast back his thoughts, trying to figure out what the Hat
could possibly be talking about—and then, suddenly, he realised. He
couldn’t believe he’d managed to overlook it up until this point.

You mean my horrified realisation that you’re going to cease to be
conscious once you finish Sorting me—

Somehow, in some fashion Harry entirely failed to understand, he got a
non-verbal impression of a hat banging its head against the wall. “I
give up. You’re too slow on the uptake for this to be funny. So blinded
by your own assumptions that you might as well be a rock. I suppose I’ll
just have to say it outright.”

Too s-s-slow—

“Oh, and you entirely forgot to demand the secrets of the lost magic
that created me. And they were such wonderful, important secrets, too.”

You sly little bastard—

“You deserved it, and this as well.”

Harry saw it coming just as it was already too late.

The frightened silence of the hall was broken by a single word.

“SLYTHERIN!”

Some students screamed, the pent-up tension was so great. People started
hard enough to fall off their benches. Hagrid gasped in horror,
McGonagall staggered at the podium, and Snape dropped the remains of his
heavy silver goblet directly onto his groin.

Harry sat there frozen, his life in ruins, feeling the absolute fool,
and wishing wretchedly that he had made any other choices for any other
reasons but the ones he had. That he had done something, anything
differently before it had been too late to turn back.

As the first moment of shock was wearing off and people began to react
to the news, the Sorting Hat spoke again:

“Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!”

11. Omake Files I, II & III

E. Y.: Hail the Dark Lord Rowling.

“Omake” is a non-canonical extra.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Omake Files I: 72 Hours to Victory

Dumbledore peered over his desk at young Harry, twinkling in a kindly
sort of way. The boy had come to him with a terribly intense look on his
childish face—Dumbledore hoped that whatever this matter was, it wasn’t
too serious. Harry was far too young for his life trials to be starting
already. “What was it you wished to speak to me about, Harry?”

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres leaned forward in his chair, smiling
grimly. “Headmaster, I got a sharp pain in my scar during the Sorting
Feast. Considering how and where I got this scar, it didn’t seem like
the sort of thing I should just ignore. I thought at first it was
because of Professor Snape, but I followed the Baconian experimental
method which is to find the conditions for both the presence and the
absence of the phenomenon, and I’ve determined that my scar hurts if and
only if I’m facing the back of Professor Quirrell’s head, whatever’s
under his turban. While it could be something more innocuous, I think we
should provisionally assume the worst, that it’s You-Know-Who—wait,
don’t look so horrified, this is actually a priceless opportunity—”

Omake Files II: I Ain’t Afraid of Dark Lords

This was the original version of Chapter 9. It was replaced
because—while many readers did enjoy it—many other readers had massive
allergies to songs in fanfics, for reasons that should not much need
belabouring. I didn’t want to drive readers away before they got to
Chapter 10.

Lee Jordan is the fellow prankster of Fred and George (in canon). “Lee
Jordan” had sounded like a Muggle-born name to me, implying that he
would be capable of instructing Fred and George on a tune that Harry
would know. This was not as obvious to some readers as it was to your
author.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco went to Slytherin, and Harry breathed a small sigh of relief. It
had seemed like a sure thing, but you never did know what tiny event
might upset the course of your master plan.

They were approaching the P’s now…

And over at the Gryffindor table, there was a whispered conversation.

“What if he doesn’t like it?”

“He’s got no right to not like it—”

“—not after the prank he played on—”

“—Neville Longbottom, his name was—”

“—he’s as fair a fair target now as fair can be.”

“All right. Just make sure you don’t forget your parts.”

“We’ve rehearsed it often enough—”

“—over the last three hours.”

And Minerva McGonagall, from where she stood at the speaker’s podium of
the Head Table, looked down at the next name on her list. Please don’t
let him be a Gryffindor please don’t let him be a Gryffindor oh please
don’t let him be a Gryffindor… She took a deep breath, and called:

“Potter, Harry!”

There was a sudden silence in the hall as all whispered conversation
stopped.

A silence broken by a horrible buzzing noise that modulated and changed
in hideous mockery of musical melody.

Minerva’s head jerked around, shocked, and identified the buzzing noise
as coming from the Gryffindor direction, where They were standing on top
of the table blowing into some kind of tiny devices held against Their
lips. Her hand started to drop to her wand, to Silencio the lot of Them,
but another sound stopped her.

Dumbledore was chuckling.

Minerva’s eyes went back to Harry Potter, who had only just started to
step out of line before he’d stumbled and halted.

Then the young boy began to walk again, moving his legs in odd sweeping
motions, and waving his arms back and forth and snapping his fingers, in
synchrony with Their music.

To the tune of “Ghostbusters”

(As performed on the kazoo by Fred and George Weasley, and sung by Lee
Jordan.)

.

There’s a Dark Lord near?
Got no need to fear
Who you gonna call?

“HARRY POTTER!” shouted Lee Jordan, and the Weasley twins performed a
triumphant chorus.

With a Killing Curse?
Well it could be worse.
Who you gonna call?

“HARRY POTTER!” There were a lot more voices shouting it this time.

The Weasley Horrors went off into an extended wailing, now accompanied
by some of the older Muggle-borns, who had produced their own tiny
devices, Transfigured out of the school silverware no doubt. As their
music reached its anticlimax, Harry Potter shouted:

I ain’t afraid of Dark Lords!

There was cheering then, especially from the Gryffindor table, and more
students produced their own anti-musical instruments. The hideous
buzzings redoubled in volume and built to another awful crescendo:

I ain’t afraid of Dark Lords!

Minerva glanced to both sides of the Head Table, afraid to look but with
all too good a notion of what she would see.

Trelawney frantically fanning herself, Flitwick looking on with
curiosity, Hagrid clapping along to the music, Sprout looking severe,
and Quirrell gazing at the boy with sardonic amusement. Directly to her
left, Dumbledore humming along; and directly to her right, Snape
gripping his empty wine goblet, white-knuckled, so hard that the thick
silver was slowly deforming.

Dark robes and a mask?
Impossible task?
Who you gonna call?
HARRY POTTER!

Giant Fire-Ape?
Old bat in a cape?
Who you gonna call?
HARRY POTTER!

Minerva’s lips set in a white line. She would have words with Them about
that last verse, if They thought she was powerless because it was the
first day of school and Gryffindor had no points to take away. If They
didn’t care about detentions then she would find something else.

Then, with a sudden gasp of horror, she looked in Snape’s direction,
surely he realised the Potter boy must have no idea who that was talking
about—

Snape’s face had gone beyond rage into a kind of pleasant indifference.
A faint smile played about his lips. He was looking in the direction of
Harry Potter, not the Gryffindor table, and his hands held the crumpled
remains of a former wine goblet…

And Harry walked forwards, sweeping his arms and legs through the
motions of the Ghostbusters dance, keeping a smile on his face. It was a
great setup, had caught him completely by surprise. The least he could
do was play along and not ruin it all.

Everyone was cheering him. It made him feel all warm inside and sort of
awful at the same time.

They were cheering him for a job he’d done when he was one year old. A
job he hadn’t really finished. Somewhere, somehow, the Dark Lord was
still alive. Would they have been cheering quite so hard, if they knew
that?

But the Dark Lord’s power had been broken once.

And Harry would protect them again. If there was in fact a prophecy and
that was what it said. Well, actually regardless of what any darn
prophecy said.

All those people believing in him and cheering him—Harry couldn’t stand
to let that be false. To flash and fade like so many other child
prodigies. To be a disappointment. To fail to live up to his reputation
as a symbol of the Light, never mind how he’d won it. He would
absolutely, positively, no matter how long it took and even if it killed
him, fulfil their expectations. And then go on to exceed those
expectations, so that people wondered, looking back, that they had once
asked so little of him.

And he shouted out the lie that he’d invented because it scanned well
and the song called for it:

I ain’t afraid of Dark Lords!
I ain’t afraid of Dark Lords!

Harry took his last steps toward the Sorting Hat as the music ended. He
swept a bow to the Order of Chaos at the Gryffindor table, and then
turned and swept another bow to the other side of the hall, and waited
for the applause and giggling to die away…

Omake Files III: Alternate Endings of ‘Self-Awareness’

The offer to tell the whole plot to anyone who guessed what “has never
happened before” spurred a lot of interesting attempts. The first omake
below is taken directly from my personal favourite answer, by
Meteoricshipyards. The second is based on Kazuma’s suggestion for what
“has never happened before”, the third on a combination of yoyoente and
dougal74, the fourth on wolf550e’s review of chapter 10. The one that
starts with ‘K’, and the one just above that, are from DarkHeart81. The
others are my own. Anyone who wants to pick up one of my own ideas and
run with them, particularly the last one, is welcome to do so. And
before I get 100 indignant complaints, yes, I am well aware that the
legislative body of the UK is the House of Commons in Parliament.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

…In the back of his mind, he wondered if the Sorting Hat was genuinely
conscious in the sense of being aware of its own awareness, and if so,
whether it was satisfied with only getting to talk to eleven-year-olds
once per year. Its song had implied so: Oh, I’m the Sorting Hat and I’m
okay, I sleep all year and I work one day…

When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the stool and
carefully placed onto his head the 800-year-old telepathic artefact of
forgotten magic.

Thinking, just as hard as he could: Don’t Sort me yet! I have questions
I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark
Lord when he was a child and can you tell me about his weaknesses? Can
you tell me why I got the brother wand to the Dark Lord’s? Is the Dark
Lord’s ghost bound to my scar and is that why I get so angry sometimes?
Those are the most important questions, but if you’ve got another moment
can you tell me anything about how to rediscover the lost magics that
created you?

And the Sorting Hat answered, “No. Yes. No. No. Yes and no, next time
don’t ask double questions. No.” and out loud, “RAVENCLAW!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Oh, dear. This has never happened before…”

What?

“I’m allergic to your hair shampoo—”

And then the Sorting Hat sneezed, with a mighty “A-CHOO!” that echoed
around the Great Hall.

“Well!” Dumbledore cried jovially. “It seems Harry Potter has been
sorted into the new House of Achoo! McGonagall, you can serve as the
Head of House Achoo. You’d better hurry up on making arrangements for
Achoo’s curriculum and classes, tomorrow is the first day!”

“But, but, but,” stammered McGonagall, her mind in nearly complete
disarray, “who will be Head of House Gryffindor?” It was all she could
think of, she had to stop this somehow…

Dumbledore put a finger to his cheek, looking thoughtful. “Snape.”

Snape’s screech of protest nearly drowned out McGonagall’s, “Then who
will be Head of Slytherin?”

“Hagrid.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Don’t Sort me yet! I have questions I need to ask you! Have I ever been
Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark Lord when he was a child and can you
tell me about his weaknesses? Can you tell me why I got the brother wand
to the Dark Lord’s? Is the Dark Lord’s ghost bound to my scar and is
that why I get so angry sometimes? Those are the most important
questions, but if you’ve got another moment can you tell me anything
about how to rediscover the lost magics that created you?

There was a brief pause.

Hello? Do I need to repeat the questions?

The Sorting Hat screamed, an awful high-pitched sound that echoed
through the Great Hall and caused most of the students to clap their
hands over their ears. With a desperate yowl, it leapt off Harry
Potter’s head and bounded across the floor, pushing itself along with
its brim, and made it halfway to the Head Table before it exploded.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“SLYTHERIN!”

Seeing the look of horror on Harry Potter’s face, Fred Weasley thought
faster than he ever had in his life. In a single motion he whipped out
his wand, whispered “Silencio!” and then “Changemyvoiceio!” and finally
“Ventriliquo!”

“Just kidding!” said Fred Weasley. “GRYFFINDOR!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Oh, dear. This has never happened before…”

What?

“Ordinarily I would refer such questions to the Headmaster, who could
ask me in turn, if he wished. But some of the information you’ve asked
for is not only beyond your own user level, but beyond the
Headmaster’s.”

How can I raise my user level?

“I’m afraid I am not allowed to answer that question at your current
user level.”

What options are available at my user level?

After that it didn’t take long—

“ROOT!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Oh, dear. This has never happened before…”

What?

“I’ve had to tell students before that they were mothers—it would break
your heart to know what I saw in their minds—but this is the first time
I’ve ever had to tell someone they were a father.”

WHAT?

“Draco Malfoy is carrying your baby.”

WHAAAAAAAT?

“To repeat: Draco Malfoy is carrying your baby.”

But we’re only eleven—

“Actually, Draco is secretly thirteen years old.”

B-b-but men can’t get pregnant—

“And a girl under those clothes.”

BUT WE’VE NEVER HAD SEX, YOU IDIOT!

“SHE OBLIVIATED YOU AFTER THE RAPE, MORON!”

Harry Potter fainted. His unconscious body fell off the stool with a
dull thud.

“RAVENCLAW!” called out the Hat from where it lay on top of his head.
That had been even funnier than its first idea.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“ELF!”

Huh? Harry remembered Draco mentioning a ‘House Elf’, but what was that
exactly?

Judging by the appalled looks dawning on the faces around him, it wasn’t
anything good—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“PANCAKES!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“REPRESENTATIVES!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Oh, dear. This has never happened before…”

What?

“I’ve never Sorted someone who was a reincarnation of Godric Gryffindor
and Salazar Slytherin and Naruto.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“ATREIDES!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Fooled you again! HUFFLEPUFF! SLYTHERIN! HUFFLEPUFF!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“PICKLED STEWBERRIES!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“KHAAANNNN!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the Head Table, Dumbledore went on smiling benignly; small metallic
sounds occasionally came from Snape’s direction as he idly compacted the
twisted remains of what had once been a heavy silver wine goblet; and
Minerva McGonagall clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip, knowing
that Harry Potter’s contagious chaos had infected the Sorting Hat
itself.

Scenario after scenario played out through Minerva’s head, each worse
than the last. The Hat would say that Harry was too evenly balanced
between Houses to Sort, and decide that he belonged to all of them. The
Hat would proclaim that Harry’s mind was too strange to be Sorted. The
Hat would demand that Harry be expelled from Hogwarts. The Hat had gone
into a coma. The Hat would insist that a whole new House of Doom be
created just to accommodate Harry Potter, and Dumbledore would make her
do it…

Minerva remembered what Harry had told her in that disastrous trip to
Diagon Alley, about the… planning fallacy, she thought it had been… and
how people were usually too optimistic, even when they thought they were
being pessimistic. It was the sort of information that preyed on your
mind, dwelling in it and spinning off nightmares…

But what was the worst that could happen?

Well… in the worst-case scenario, the Hat would assign Harry to a whole
new House. Dumbledore would insist that she do it—create a whole new
House just for him—and she’d have to rearrange all the class schedules
on the first day of term. And Dumbledore would remove her as Head of
House Gryffindor, and give her beloved House over to… Professor Binns,
the History ghost; and she would be assigned as Head of Harry’s House of
Doom; and she would futilely try to give the child orders, deducting
point after point without effect, while disaster after disaster was
blamed on her.

Was that the worst-case scenario?

Minerva honestly didn’t see how it could be any worse than that.

And even in the very worst case—no matter what happened with Harry—it
would all be over in seven years.

Minerva felt her knuckles slowly relax their white-knuckled grip on the
podium. Harry had been right, there was a kind of comfort in staring
directly into the furthest depths of the darkness, knowing that you had
confronted your worst fears and were now prepared.

The frightened silence was broken by a single word.

“HEADMASTER!” called the Sorting Hat.

At the Head Table, Dumbledore rose, his face puzzled. “Yes?” he
addressed the Hat. “What is it?”

“I wasn’t talking to you,” said the Hat. “I was Sorting Harry Potter
into the place in Hogwarts where he most belongs, namely the
Headmaster’s office—”

12. Impulse Control

E. Y.: ph’nglui mglw’nafh J. K. Rowling wgah’nagl fhtagn

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wonder what’s wrong with him.

“TURPIN, Lisa!”

Whisper whisper whisper harry potter whisper whisper slytherin whisper
whisper no seriously what the hell whisper whisper

“RAVENCLAW!”

Harry joined in the applause greeting the young girl walking shyly
towards the Ravenclaw table, her robes’ trim now changed to dark blue.
Lisa Turpin appeared torn between her impulse to sit down as far away
from Harry Potter as possible, and her impulse to run over, forcibly
insert herself at his side and start tearing answers out of him.

Being at the centre of an extraordinary and curious event, and then
being Sorted into House Ravenclaw, was closely akin to being dipped in
barbecue sauce and flung into a pit of starving kittens.

“I promised the Sorting Hat not to talk about it,” whispered Harry for
the umpteenth time.

“Yes, really.”

“No, I really did promise the Sorting Hat not to talk about it.”

“Fine, I promised the Sorting Hat not to talk about most of it and the
rest is private just like yours was so stop asking.”

“You want to know what happened? Fine! Here’s part of what happened! I
told the Hat that Professor McGonagall threatened to set it on fire and
it told me to tell Professor McGonagall that she was an impudent
youngster and she should get off its lawn!”

“If you’re not going to believe what I say then why are you even
asking?”

“No, I don’t know how I defeated the Dark Lord either! You tell me if
you figure it out!”

“Silence!” shouted Professor McGonagall at the podium of the Head Table.
“No talking until the Sorting Ceremony finishes!”

There was a brief dip in the volume, as everyone waited to see if she
was going to make any specific and credible threats, and then the
whispers started up again.

Then the silver-bearded ancient stood up from his great golden chair,
smiling cheerfully.

Instant silence. Someone frantically elbowed Harry as he tried to
continue a whisper, and Harry cut himself off in mid-sentence.

The cheerful-looking old man sat down again.

Note to self: Do not mess with Dumbledore.

Harry was still trying to process everything that had happened during
the Incident with the Sorting Hat. Not the least of which was what had
happened the instant Harry had lifted the Hat off his head; in that
moment, he’d heard a tiny whisper as though from nowhere, something that
sounded oddly like English and a hiss at the same time, something that
had said, “Ssalutationss from Sslytherin to Sslytherin: if you would
sseek my ssecretss, sspeak to my ssnake.”

Harry was sorta guessing that wasn’t supposed to be part of the official
Sorting process. And that it was a bit of extra magic set down by
Salazar Slytherin during the making of the Hat. And that the Hat itself
didn’t know about it. And that it was triggered when the Hat said
“SLYTHERIN”, plus or minus some other conditions. And that a Ravenclaw
like himself really, really wasn’t supposed to have heard it. And that
if he could find some reliable way of swearing Draco to secrecy so he
could ask him about it, that would be an excellent time to have some
Comed-Tea handy.

Boy, you resolve not to go down the path of a Dark Lord and the universe
starts messing with you the instant the Hat comes off your head. Some
days it just doesn’t pay to fight destiny. Maybe I’ll wait until
tomorrow to start on my resolution to not be a Dark Lord.

“GRYFFINDOR!”

Ron Weasley got a lot of applause, and not just from the Gryffindors.
Apparently the Weasley family was widely liked around here. Harry, after
a moment, smiled and started applauding along with the others.

Then again, there was no time like today to turn back from the Dark
Side.

Stuff destiny and stuff the universe. He’d show that Hat.

“Zabini, Blaise!”

Pause.

“SLYTHERIN!” shouted the hat.

Harry applauded Zabini too, ignoring the odd looks he was getting from
everyone including Zabini.

No other name was called out after that, and Harry realised that
“Zabini, Blaise” did sound close to the end of the alphabet. Great, so
now the only Slytherin he’d applauded was Zabini… Oh well.

Dumbledore got up again and began heading towards the podium. Apparently
they were about to be treated to a speech—

And Harry was struck by the inspiration for a brilliant experimental
test.

Hermione had said that Dumbledore was the most powerful wizard alive,
right?

Harry reached into his pouch and whispered, “Comed-Tea”.

For the Comed-Tea to work, it would have to make Dumbledore say
something so ridiculous during his speech that even in Harry’s state of
mental preparedness, he would still choke. Like, all the Hogwarts
students had to not wear any clothes for the whole school year, or
everyone was going to be transformed into cats.

But then if anyone in the world could resist the power of the Comed-Tea,
it would be Dumbledore. So if this worked, the Comed-Tea was literally
invincible.

Harry pulled the ring on the Comed-Tea under the table, wanting to do
this a bit unobtrusively. The can made a quiet hissing noise. A few
heads turned to look at him, but soon turned back as—

“Welcome! Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts!” said Dumbledore, beaming
at the students with his arms opened wide, as if nothing could have
pleased him more than to see them all there.

Harry took a first mouthful of Comed-Tea and lowered the can again. He
would swallow the pop a little at a time and try not to choke no matter
what Dumbledore said—

“Before we begin our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here
they are: Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp! Thank you!”

Everyone clapped and cheered, and Dumbledore sat down again.

Harry sat frozen as pop trickled out of the corners of his mouth. He
had, at least, managed to choke quietly.

He really really really shouldn’t have done that. Amazing how much more
obvious that became one second after it was too late.

In retrospect he probably should have noticed something wrong when he
was thinking about everyone being turned into cats… or even before then,
remembered his mental note not to mess with Dumbledore… or his newfound
resolution to be more considerate of others… or maybe if he’d had one
single scrap of common sense…

It was hopeless. He was corrupt to the core. Hail the Dark Lord Harry.
You couldn’t fight fate.

Someone was asking Harry if he was all right. (Others were starting to
serve themselves food, which had magically appeared on the table,
whatever.)

“I’m all right,” Harry said. “Excuse me. Um. Was that a… normal speech
for the Headmaster? You… didn’t seem… very surprised…”

“Oh, Dumbledore’s insane, of course,” said an older-looking Ravenclaw
sitting next to him who had introduced himself with some name Harry
didn’t even begin to remember. “Lots of fun, incredibly powerful wizard,
but completely bonkers.” He paused. “At some later point I’d also like
to ask why green fluid came out of your lips and then disappeared,
though I expect you promised the Sorting Hat not to talk about that
either.”

With a great effort, Harry stopped himself from glancing down at the
incriminating can of Comed-Tea in his hand.

After all, the Comed-Tea hadn’t just arbitrarily materialised a Quibbler
headline about him and Draco. Draco had explained it in a way that made
it seem like it had all happened… naturally? As if it had altered
history to fit?

Harry was mentally imagining himself banging his forehead against the
table. Wham, wham, wham went his head within his mind.

Another student lowered her voice to a whisper. “I hear that Dumbledore
is secretly a genius mastermind controlling lots of stuff and he uses
the insanity as a cover so that no-one will suspect him.”

“I’ve heard that too,” whispered a third student, and there were furtive
nods from around the table.

This couldn’t help but catch Harry’s attention.

“I see,” whispered Harry, lowering his own voice. “So everyone knows
that Dumbledore is secretly a mastermind.”

Most of the students nodded. One or two looked suddenly thoughtful,
including the older student sitting next to Harry.

Are you sure this is the Ravenclaw table? Harry managed not to ask out
loud.

“Brilliant!” Harry whispered. “If everyone knows, no-one will suspect
it’s a secret!”

“Exactly,” whispered a student, and then he frowned. “Wait, that doesn’t
sound quite right—”

Note to self: The 75th percentile of Hogwarts students a.k.a. Ravenclaw
House is not the world’s most exclusive educational facility for gifted
children.

But at least he’d learned an important fact today. The Comed-Tea was
omnipotent. And that meant…

Harry blinked in surprise as his mind finally made the obvious
connection.

… that meant that as soon as he learned a spell to temporarily alter his
own sense of humour, he could make anything happen, by making it so that
he would only find that one thing surprising enough to do a spit-take,
and then drinking a can of Comed-Tea.

Well that was a short little journey to godhood. Even I expected this to
take longer than my first day of school.

Come to think of it, he had also completely wrecked Hogwarts within ten
minutes flat of getting Sorted.

Harry did feel a certain amount of regret about this—Merlin knew what an
insane Headmaster was going to do to his next seven years of
schooling—but he couldn’t help feeling a twinge of pride, too.

Tomorrow. No later than tomorrow at the very latest he was going to stop
walking down the path that led to Dark Lord Harry. A prospect which was
sounding scarier by the minute.

And yet also, somehow, increasingly attractive. Part of his mind was
already visualising the minions’ uniforms.

“Eat,” the older student sitting next to him growled, and jabbed Harry
in the ribs. “Don’t think. Eat.”

Harry automatically started loading up his plate with whatever was in
front of him, blue sausages with tiny glowing bits, whatever.

“What were you thinking about, the Sorting—” started Padma Patil, one of
the other first-year Ravenclaws.

“No pestering during mealtimes!” chorused at least three people. “House
Rule!” added another. “Otherwise we’d all starve around here.”

Harry was finding himself really, really hoping that his clever new idea
didn’t actually work. And that the Comed-Tea worked some other way and
didn’t actually have the omnipotent power to alter reality. It wasn’t
that he didn’t want to be omnipotent. It was that he just couldn’t bear
the thought of living in a universe that really worked like that. There
was something undignified about ascending through the clever use of
fizzy drinks.

But he was going to test it experimentally.

“You know,” said the older student next to him in a quite pleasant tone,
“we have a system for forcing people like you to eat, would you like to
find out what it is?”

Harry gave up and started eating his blue sausage. It was quite good,
especially the glowing bits.

Dinner passed with surprising rapidity. Harry tried to sample at least a
little of all the weird new foods he saw. His curiosity couldn’t stand
the thought of not knowing how something tasted. Thank goodness this
wasn’t a restaurant where you had to order only one thing and you never
found out what all the other things on the menu tasted like. Harry hated
that, it was like a torture chamber for anyone with a spark of
curiosity: Find out about only one of the mysteries on this list, ha ha
ha!

Then it was time for dessert, which Harry had completely forgotten to
leave room for. He gave up after sampling a small bit of treacle tart.
Surely all these things would pass around at least once again over the
course of the school year.

So what was on his to-do list, besides the ordinary school things?

To-do 1. Research mind-alteration charms so you can test the Comed-Tea
and see whether you actually did figure out a path to omnipotence.
Actually, just research every kind of mind magic you can find. Mind is
the foundation of our power as humans, any kind of magic that affects it
is the most important sort of magic there is.

To-do 2. Actually this is To-do 1 and the other is To-do 2. Go through
the bookshelves of the Hogwarts and Ravenclaw libraries, familiarising
yourself with the system and making sure you’ve at least read all the
book titles. Second pass: read all tables of contents. Coordinate with
Hermione who has a much better memory than you. Find out if there’s an
interlibrary loan system at Hogwarts and see if the two of you,
especially Hermione, can visit those libraries too. If other Houses have
private libraries, figure out how to access legally or sneak in.

Option 3a: Swear Hermione to secrecy and try to start researching ‘From
Slytherin to Slytherin: if you would seek my secrets, speak to my
snake.’ Problem: This sounds highly confidential and it could take quite
a while to randomly run across a book containing a hint.

To-do 0: Check out what sort of information-search-and-retrieval spells
exist, if any. Library magic isn’t as ultimately important as mind magic
but it has a much higher priority.

Option 3b: Look for a spell to magically bind Draco Malfoy to secrecy,
or magically verify the sincerity of Draco’s promise to keep a secret
(Veritaserum?), and then ask him about Slytherin’s message…

Actually… Harry had a pretty bad feeling about option 3b.

Now that Harry thought about it, he didn’t feel all that great about
option 3a, either.

Harry’s thoughts flashed back to possibly the worst moment of his life
to date, those long seconds of blood-freezing horror beneath the Hat,
when he thought he’d already failed. He’d wished then to fall back just
a few minutes in time and change something, anything before it was too
late…

And then it had turned out to not be too late after all.

Wish granted.

You couldn’t change history. But you could get it right to start with.
Do something differently the first time around.

This whole business with seeking Slytherin’s secrets… seemed an awful
lot like the sort of thing where, years later, you would look back and
say, ‘And that was where it all started going wrong.’

And he would wish desperately for the ability to fall back through time
and make a different choice…

Wish granted. Now what?

Harry slowly smiled.

It was a rather counterintuitive thought… but…

But he could, there was no rule saying he couldn’t, he could just
pretend he’d never heard that little whisper. Let the universe go on in
exactly the same way it would have if that one critical moment had never
occurred. Twenty years later, that was what he would desperately wish
had happened twenty years ago, and twenty years before twenty years
later happened to be right now. Altering the distant past was easy, you
just had to think of it at the right time.

Or… this was even more counterintuitive… he could even inform, oh, say,
Professor McGonagall, instead of Draco or Hermione. And she could get a
few good people together and get that little extra spell taken off the
Hat.

Why, yes. That sounded like a remarkably good idea once Harry had
actually thought of it.

So very obvious in retrospect, and yet somehow, Option 3c and Option 3d
just hadn’t occurred to him.

Harry awarded himself +1 point on his anti-Dark-Lord-Harry programme.

It had been an awfully cruel prank the Hat had played on him, but you
couldn’t argue with the results on consequentialist grounds. It
certainly did give him a better idea of the victim’s perspective,
though.

To-do 4: Apologise to Neville Longbottom.

Okay, he was on a roll here, now he just had to keep it up. In every
day, in every way, I’m getting Lighter and Lighter…

People around Harry had also mostly stopped eating at this point, and
the dessert serving dishes began to vanish, and the used plates.

When all the plates were gone, Dumbledore once again stood up from his
seat.

Harry couldn’t help but feel the urge to drink another Comed-Tea.

You’ve got to be kidding, Harry thought at that piece of himself.

But the experiment didn’t count if it wasn’t replicated, did it? And the
damage was already done, wasn’t it? Didn’t he want to see what would
happen this time? Wasn’t he curious? What if he got a different result?

Hey, I bet you’re the same part of my brain that pushed through the
prank on Neville Longbottom.

Er, maybe?

And is it not overwhelmingly obvious that if I do this I shall regret it
one second after it is too late?

Um…

Yeah. So, no.

“Ahem,” said Dumbledore from the podium, stroking his long silver beard.
“Just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I have a few
start-of-term notices to give you.”

“First-years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to
all pupils. That is why it is called the Forbidden Forest. If it were
permitted it would be called the Permitted Forest.”

Straightforward. Note to self: Forbidden Forest is forbidden.

“I have also been asked by Mr Filch, the caretaker, to remind you all
that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors. Alas, we
all know that what should be, and what is, are two different things.
Thank you for keeping this in mind.”

Er…

“Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone
interested in playing for their house teams should contact Madam Hooch.
Anyone interested in reformulating the entire game of Quidditch should
contact Harry Potter.”

Harry inhaled his own saliva and went into a coughing fit just as all
eyes turned towards him. How the hell! He hadn’t met Dumbledore’s eyes
at any point… he didn’t think. He certainly hadn’t been thinking about
Quidditch at the time! He hadn’t talked to anyone but Ron Weasley and he
didn’t think Ron would have told anyone else… or had Ron run off to a
professor to complain? How on Earth…

“Additionally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor
on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to
die a very painful death. It is guarded by an elaborate series of
dangerous and potentially lethal traps, and you cannot possibly get past
all of them, especially if you are only in your first year.”

Harry was numb at this point.

“And finally, I extend my greatest thanks to Quirinus Quirrell for
heroically agreeing to undertake the position of Defence Against the
Dark Arts Professor at Hogwarts.” Dumbledore’s gaze moved searchingly
across the students. “I hope all students will extend Professor Quirrell
that utmost courtesy and tolerance which is due his extraordinary
service to you and this school, and that you will not pester us with any
niggling complaints about him, unless you want to try doing his job.”

What was that about?

“I now yield the floor to our new faculty member Professor Quirrell, who
would like to say a few words.”

The young, thin, nervous man who Harry had first met in the Leaky
Cauldron slowly made his way up to the podium, glancing fearfully around
in all directions. Harry caught a glimpse of the back of his head, and
it looked like Professor Quirrell might already be going bald, despite
his seeming youth.

“Wonder what’s wrong with him,” whispered the older-looking student
sitting next to Harry. Similar hushed comments were being exchanged
elsewhere along the table.

Professor Quirrell made his way up to the podium and stood there,
blinking. “Ah…” he said. “Ah…” Then his courage seemed to fail him
utterly, and he stood there in silence, occasionally twitching.

“Oh, great,” whispered the older student, “looks like another long year
in Defence class—”

“Salutations, my young apprentices,” Professor Quirrell said in a dry,
confident tone. “We all know that Hogwarts tends to suffer a certain
misfortune in its selections for this position, and no doubt many of you
are already wondering what doom shall befall me this year. I assure you,
that doom is not to be my incompetence.” He smiled thinly. “Believe it
or not, I have long wished to some day try my hand as the Professor of
Defence Against the Dark Arts here at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
and Wizardry. The first to teach this class was Salazar Slytherin
himself, and as late as the fourteenth century it was traditional for
the greatest fighting wizards of every persuasion to try their hands at
teaching here. Past Professors of Defence have included not just the
legendary wandering hero Harold Shea but also the quote undying unquote
Baba Yaga, yes, I see some of you are still shuddering at the sound of
her name even though she’s been dead for six hundred years. That must
have been an interesting time to attend Hogwarts, don’t you think?”

Harry was swallowing hard, trying to suppress the sudden surge of
emotion that had overcome him when Professor Quirrell had begun
speaking. The precise tones reminded him very much of a lecturer at
Oxford, and it was starting to hit home that Harry wasn’t going to see
his home or his Mum or his Dad until Christmas.

“You are accustomed to the Defence position being filled by
incompetents, scoundrels, and the unlucky. To anyone with a sense of
history, it bears another reputation entirely. Not everyone who teaches
here has been the best, but the best have all taught at Hogwarts. In
such august company, and after so much time anticipating this day, I
would be ashamed to set myself any standard lower than perfection. And
so I do intend that every one of you will always remember this year as
the best Defence class that you have ever had. What you learn this year
will forever serve as your firm foundation in the arts of Defence, no
matter who your teachers before and after.”

Professor Quirrell’s expression grew serious. “We have a great deal of
lost ground to make up and not much time to cover it. Therefore I intend
to depart from Hogwarts teaching conventions in a number of respects, as
well as introducing some optional after-school activities.” He paused.
“If that is not sufficient, perhaps I can find new ways to motivate you.
You are my long-awaited students, and you will do your very best in my
long-awaited Defence class. I would add some sort of dreadful threat,
like ‘Otherwise you will suffer horribly’, but that would be so cliched,
don’t you think? I pride myself on being more imaginative than that.
Thank you.”

Then the vigour and confidence seemed to drain away from Professor
Quirrell. His mouth gaped open as if he had suddenly found himself
facing an unexpected audience, and he turned with a convulsive jerk and
shuffled back to his seat, hunched over as if he was about to collapse
in on himself and implode.

“He seems a little odd,” whispered Harry.

“Meh,” said the older-looking student. “You ain’t seen nothin’.”

Dumbledore resumed the podium.

“And now,” said Dumbledore, “before we go to bed, let us sing the school
song! Everyone pick their favourite tune and favourite words, and off we
go!”

13. Asking the Wrong Questions

E. Y.: Elen sila J. K. Rowling omentielvo.

EDIT: Don’t panic. I solemnly swear that there is a logical,
foreshadowed, canon-compliant explanation for everything which happens
in this chapter. It’s a puzzle, you’re supposed to try to solve it, and
if not, just read the next chapter.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That’s one of the most obvious riddles I’ve ever heard.

AS soon as Harry opened his eyes in the Ravenclaw first-year boys’
dormitory, on the morning of his first full day at Hogwarts, he knew
something was wrong.

It was quiet.

Too quiet.

Oh, right… There was a Quietus Charm on his bed’s headboard, controlled
by a small slider bar, which was the only reason it was ever possible
for anyone to go to sleep in Ravenclaw.

Harry sat up and looked around, expecting to see others rising for the
day—

The dorm, empty.

The beds, rumpled and unmade.

The sun, coming in at a rather high angle.

His Quieter turned all the way up to maximum.

And his mechanical alarm clock was still running, but the alarm was
turned off.

He’d been allowed to sleep until 9:52 a.m., apparently. Despite his best
efforts to synchronize his 26-hour sleep cycle to his arrival at
Hogwarts, he hadn’t got to sleep last night until around 1 a.m. He’d
been planning to wake up at 7:00 a.m. with the other students, he could
stand being a little sleep-deprived his first day so long as he got some
sort of magical fix before tomorrow. But now he’d missed breakfast. And
his very first class at Hogwarts, in Herbology, had started one hour and
twenty-two minutes ago.

The anger was slowly, slowly wakening in him. Oh, what a nice little
prank. Turn off his alarm. Turn up the Quieter. And let Mr Bigshot Harry
Potter miss his first class, and be blamed for being a heavy sleeper.

When Harry found out who’d done this…

No, this could only have been done with the cooperation of all twelve
other boys in the Ravenclaw dorm. All of them would have seen his
sleeping form. All of them had let him sleep through breakfast.

The anger drained away, replaced by confusion and a horribly wounded
feeling. They’d liked him. He’d thought. Last night, he’d thought they
liked him. Why…

As Harry stepped out of the bed, he saw a piece of paper facing out from
his headboard.

The paper said,

My fellow Ravenclaws,

It’s been an extra long day. Please let me sleep in and don’t worry
about my missing breakfast. I haven’t forgotten about my first class.

Yours,

Harry Potter.

And Harry stood there, frozen, ice water beginning to trickle through
his veins.

The paper was in his own handwriting, in his own mechanical pencil.

And he didn’t remember writing it.

And… Harry squinted at the piece of paper. And unless he was imagining
it, the words “I haven’t forgotten” were written in a different style,
as if he was trying to tell himself something…?

Had he known he was going to be Obliviated? Had he stayed up late,
committed some sort of crime or covert activity, and then… but he didn’t
know the Obliviate spell… had someone else… what…

A thought occurred to Harry. If he had known he was going to be
Obliviated…

Still in his pyjamas, Harry ran around his bed to his trunk, pressed his
thumb against the lock, pulled out his pouch, stuck in his hand and said
“Note to myself.”

And another piece of paper popped into his hand.

Harry took it out, staring at it. It too was in his own handwriting.

The note said:

Dear Me,

Please play the game. You can only play the game once in a lifetime.
This is an unrepeatable opportunity.

Recognition code 927, I am a potato.

Yours,

You.

Harry nodded slowly. “Recognition code 927, I am a potato” was indeed
the message he had worked out in advance—some years earlier, while
watching TV—that only he would know. If he had to identify a duplicate
of himself as being really him, or something. Just in case. Be Prepared.

Harry couldn’t trust the message, there might be other spells involved.
But it ruled out any simple prank. He had definitely written this and he
definitely didn’t remember writing it.

Staring at the paper, Harry became aware of ink showing through from the
other side.

He flipped it over.

The reverse side read:

Instructions for The Game

you do not know the rules of the game
you do not know the stakes of the game
you do not know the objective of the game
you do not know who controls the game
you do not know how to end the game

You start with 100 points.
Begin.

Harry stared at the “instructions”. This side wasn’t handwritten; the
writing was perfectly regular, hence artificial. It looked as if it had
been inscribed by a Quotes Quill, such as the one he’d bought to take
dictation.

He had absolutely no clue what was going on.

Well… step one was to get dressed and eat. Maybe reverse the order of
that. His stomach felt rather empty.

He’d missed breakfast, of course, but he was Prepared for that
eventuality, having visualised it in advance. Harry put his hand into
his pouch and said “Snack bars,” expecting to get the box of cereal bars
he’d bought before departing for Hogwarts.

What popped up did not feel like a box of cereal bars.

When Harry brought his hand into his field of vision he saw two tiny
chocolate bars—not nearly enough for a meal—attached to a note, and the
note was inscribed in the same writing as the game instructions.

The note said:

  ----------------- --------------
    Attempt failed: -1 point
    Current points: 99
    Physical state: Still hungry
      Mental state: Confused
  ----------------- --------------

“Gleehhhhh” Harry’s mouth said without any sort of conscious
intervention or decision on his part.

He stood there for around a minute.

One minute later, it still didn’t make any sense and he still had
absolutely no idea what was going on and his brain hadn’t even begun to
grasp at any hypotheses like his mental hands were encased in rubber
balls and couldn’t pick anything up.

His stomach, which had its own priorities, suggested a possible
experimental probe.

“Ah…” Harry said to the empty room. “I don’t suppose I could spend a
point and get my box of cereal bars back?”

There was only silence.

Harry put his hand into the pouch and said “Box of cereal bars.”

A box that felt like the right shape popped up into his hand… but it was
too light, and it was open, and it was empty, and the note attached to
it said:

  ------------------ ----------------------
       Points spent: 1
     Current points: 98
    You have gained: A box of Cereal Bars
  ------------------ ----------------------

“I’d like to spend one point and get the actual cereal bars back,” said
Harry.

Again, silence.

Harry put his hand into the pouch and said “cereal bars”.

Nothing came up.

Harry shrugged despairingly and went over to the cabinet he’d been given
near his bed, to get his wizard’s robes for the day.

On the floor of the cabinet, under his robes, were the cereal bars, and
a note:

  ------------------------ ---------------
             Points spent: 1
           Current points: 97
          You have gained: 6 cereal bars
    You are still wearing: Pyjamas
  ------------------------ ---------------

Do not eat while you are wearing your pyjamas
You will get a Pyjama Penalty

And now I know that whoever controls the game is insane.

“My guess is that the game is controlled by Dumbledore,” Harry said out
loud. Maybe this time he could set a new land speed record for being
quick on the uptake.

Silence.

But Harry was starting to pick up the pattern; the note would be in the
next place he looked. So Harry looked under his bed.

Ha! Ha ha ha ha ha!
Ha ha ha ha ha ha!
Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!
Dumbledore does not control the game
Bad guess
Very bad guess
—20 points
And you are still wearing pyjamas
it is your fourth move
and you are still wearing pyjamas

  ----------------- -----------
    Pyjama penalty: -2 points
    Current points: 75
  ----------------- -----------

Welp, that was a puzzler, all right. It was only his first day at school
and once you ruled out Dumbledore, he didn’t know the name of anyone
else here who was this crazy.

His body more or less on autopilot, Harry gathered up a set of robes and
underwear, pulled out the cavern level of his trunk (he was a very
private sort of person and someone might walk into the dorm), got
dressed, and then went back upstairs to put away his pyjamas.

Harry paused before pulling out the cabinet drawer that held his
pyjamas. If the pattern here held true…

“How can I earn more points?” Harry said out loud.

Then he pulled out the drawer.

Opportunities to do good are everywhere
but darkness is where the light needs to be

  ------------------- ---------
    Cost of question: 1 point
      Current points: 74
  ------------------- ---------

Nice underwear
Did your mother pick them out?

Harry crushed the note in his hand, face flaming scarlet. Draco’s curse
came back to him. Son of a mudblood—

At this point he knew better than to say it out loud. He would probably
get a Profanity Penalty.

Harry girded himself with his mokeskin pouch and wand. He peeled off the
wrapper of one his cereal bars and threw it into the room’s rubbish bin,
where it landed atop a mostly-uneaten Chocolate Frog, a crumpled
envelope and some green and red wrapping paper. He put the other cereal
bars into his mokeskin pouch.

He looked around in a final, desperate, and ultimately futile search for
clues.

And then Harry left the dorm, eating as he went, in search of the
Slytherin dungeons. At least that was what he thought the line was
about.

Trying to navigate the halls of Hogwarts was like… probably not quite as
bad as wandering around inside an Escher painting, that was the sort of
thing you said for rhetorical effect rather than for its being true.

A short time later, Harry was thinking that in fact an Escher painting
would have both pluses and minuses compared to Hogwarts. Minuses: No
consistent gravitational orientation. Pluses: At least the stairs
wouldn’t move around while you were still on them.

Harry had originally climbed four flights of stairs to get to his dorm.
After clambering down no fewer than twelve flights of stairs without
getting anywhere near the dungeons, Harry had concluded that (1) an
Escher painting would be a cakewalk by comparison, (2) he was somehow
higher in the castle than when he’d started, and (3) he was so
thoroughly lost that he wouldn’t have been surprised to look out of the
next window and see two moons in the sky.

Backup plan A had been to stop and ask for directions, but there seemed
to be an extreme lack of people wandering around, as if the beggars were
all attending class the way they were supposed to or something.

Backup plan B…

“I’m lost,” Harry said out loud. “Can, um, the spirit of the Hogwarts
castle help me or something?”

“I don’t think this castle has a spirit,” observed a wizened old lady in
one of the paintings on the walls. “Life, perhaps, but not spirit.”

There was a brief pause.

“Are you—” Harry said, and then shut his mouth. On second thought, no he
was not going to ask the painting whether it was fully conscious in the
sense of being aware of its own awareness.

“I’m Harry Potter,” said his mouth, more or less on autopilot. Also more
or less automatically, Harry stuck out a hand towards the painting.

The woman in the painting looked down at Harry’s hand and raised her
eyebrows.

Slowly, the hand dropped back to Harry’s side.

“Sorry,” Harry said, “I’m sort of new here.”

“So I perceive, young raven. Where are you trying to go?”

Harry hesitated. “I’m not really sure,” he said.

“Then perhaps you are already there.”

“Well, wherever I am trying to go, I don’t think this is it…” Harry shut
his mouth, aware of just how much he was sounding like an idiot. “Let me
start over. I’m playing this game only I don’t know what the rules are—”
That didn’t really work either, did it. “Okay, third try. I’m looking
for opportunities to do good so I can score points, and all I have is
this cryptic hint about how darkness is where the light needs to be, so
I was trying to go down but I seem to keep going up instead…”

The old lady in the painting was looking at him rather sceptically.

Harry sighed. “My life tends to get a bit peculiar.”

“Would it be fair to say that you don’t know where you’re going or why
you’re trying to get there?”

“Entirely fair.”

The old lady nodded. “I’m not sure that being lost is your most
important problem, young man.”

“True, but unlike the more important problems, it’s a problem I can
understand how to solve and wow is this conversation turning into a
metaphor for human existence, I didn’t even realise that was happening
until just now.”

The lady eyed Harry appraisingly. “You are a fine young raven, aren’t
you? For a moment I was starting to wonder. Well then, as a general
rule, if you keep on turning left, you’re bound to keep going down.”

That sounded strangely familiar but Harry couldn’t recall where he’d
heard it before. “Um… you seem like a very intelligent person. Or a
picture of a very intelligent person… anyway, have you heard of a
mysterious game where you can only play once, and they won’t tell you
the rules?”

“Life,” said the lady at once. “That’s one of the most obvious riddles
I’ve ever heard.”

Harry blinked. “No,” he said slowly. “I mean I got an actual note and
everything saying that I had to play the game but I wouldn’t be told the
rules, and someone is leaving me little slips of paper telling me how
many points I’ve lost for violating the rules, like a minus two point
penalty for wearing pyjamas. Do you know anyone here at Hogwarts who’s
crazy enough and powerful enough to do something like that? Besides
Dumbledore, I mean?”

The picture of a lady sighed. “I’m only a picture, young man. I remember
Hogwarts as it was—not Hogwarts as it is. All I can tell you is that if
this were a riddle, the answer would be that the game is life, and that
while we do not make all the rules ourselves, the one who awards or
takes points is always you. If it is not riddle but reality—then I do
not know.”

Harry bowed very low to the picture. “Thank you, milady.”

The lady curtseyed to him. “I wish I could say that I’ll remember you
with fondness,” she said, “but I probably won’t remember you at all.
Farewell, Harry Potter.”

He bowed again in reply, and started to climb down the nearest flight of
stairs.

Four left turns later he found himself staring down a corridor that
ended, abruptly, in a tumbled mound of large rocks—as if there had been
a cave-in, only the surrounding walls and ceiling were intact and made
of quite regular castle stones.

“All right,” Harry said to the empty air, “I give up. I’m asking for
another hint. How do I get to where I need to go?”

“A hint! A hint, you say?”

The excited voice came from a painting on the wall not far away, this
one a portrait of a middle-aged man in the loudest pink robes that Harry
had ever seen or even imagined. In the portrait he was wearing a droopy
old pointed hat with a fish on it (not a drawing of a fish, mind, but a
fish).

“Yes!” Harry said. “A hint! A hint, I say! Only not just any hint, I’m
looking for a specific hint, it’s for a game I’m playing—”

“Yes, yes! A hint for the game! You’re Harry Potter, aren’t you? I’m
Cornelion Flubberwalt! I was told by Erin the Consort who was told by
Lord Weaselnose who was told by, I forget really. But it was a message
for me to give to you! For me! No-one’s cared about me in, I don’t know
how long, maybe ever, I’ve been stuck down here in this bloody useless
old corridor—a hint! I have your hint! It will only cost you three
points! Do you want it?”

“Yes! I want it!” Harry was aware that he probably ought to keep his
sarcasm under control but he just couldn’t seem to help himself.

“The darkness can be found between the green study rooms and
McGonagall’s Transfiguration class! That’s the hint! And get a move on,
you’re slower than a sack of snails! Minus ten points for being slow!
Now you have 61 points! That was the rest of the message!”

“Thank you,” Harry said. He was really getting behind on the game here.
“Um… I don’t suppose you know where the message originally came from, do
you?”

“It was spoken by a hollow voice that belled forth from a gap within the
air itself, a gap that opened upon a fiery abyss! That’s what they told
me!”

Harry was no longer sure, at this point, whether this was the sort of
thing he ought to be sceptical about, or the sort of thing he should
just take in his stride. “And how can I find the line between the green
study rooms and Transfiguration class?”

“Just spin back around and go left, right, down, down, right, left,
right, up, and left again, you’ll be at the green study room and if you
go in and walk straight out the opposite side you’ll be on a big curvy
corridor that goes to an intersection and on the right side of that
intersection will be a long straight hallway that goes to the
Transfiguration classroom!” The figure of the middle-aged man paused.
“At least that’s how it was when I was in Hogwarts. This is a Monday on
an odd-numbered year, isn’t it?”

“Pencil and mechanical paper,” Harry said to his pouch. “Er, cancel
that, paper and mechanical pencil.” He looked up. “Could you repeat
that?”

After getting lost twice more, Harry felt that he was beginning to
understand the basic rule for navigating the ever-changing maze that was
Hogwarts, namely, ask a painting for directions. If this reflected some
sort of incredibly deep life lesson he couldn’t figure out what it was.

The green study room was a surprisingly pleasant space with sunlight
streaming in from windows of green-stained glass that showed dragons in
calm, pastoral scenes. It had chairs that looked extremely comfortable,
and tables that seemed very well-suited to studying in the company of
one to three friends.

Harry couldn’t actually walk straight through and out the door on the
other side. There were bookshelves set into the wall, and he had to go
over and read some of the titles, so as to not lose his claim to the
Verres family name. But he did it quickly, mindful of the complaint
about being slow, and then went out the other side.

He was walking down the “big curvy corridor” when he heard a young boy’s
voice cry out.

At times like this, Harry had an excuse to sprint all out with no
regards for saving energy or doing proper warm-up exercises or worrying
about crashing into things, a sudden frantic flight that nearly came to
an equally sudden halt as he almost ran over a group of six first-year
Hufflepuffs…

…who were huddled together, looking rather scared and like they
desperately wanted to do something but couldn’t figure out what, which
probably had something to do with the group of five older Slytherins who
seemed to be surrounding another young boy.

Harry was suddenly rather angry.

“Excuse me!” shouted Harry at the top of his lungs.

It might not have been necessary. People were already looking at him.
But it certainly served to stop all the action cold.

Harry walked past the cluster of Hufflepuffs towards the Slytherins.

They looked down at him with expressions that ranged from anger to
amusement to delight.

Part of Harry’s brain was screaming in panic that these were much older
and bigger boys who could stomp him flat.

Another part said dryly that anyone caught seriously stomping the
Boy-Who-Lived was in for a whole world of trouble, especially if they
were a pack of older Slytherins and there were seven Hufflepuffs who saw
it, and that the chance of them doing him any permanent damage in the
presence of witnesses was nearly zero. The only real weapon the older
boys had against him was his own fear, if he allowed that.

Then Harry saw that the boy they had trapped was Neville Longbottom.

Of course.

That settled it. Harry had decided to apologise humbly to Neville and
that meant Neville was his, how dare they?

Harry reached out and grabbed Neville by the wrist and yanked him out
from between the Slytherins, the boy stumbling in shock as Harry pulled
him out and in nearly the same motion pushed his own way through the
same gap.

And Harry stood in the centre of the Slytherins where Neville had stood,
looking up at the much older, larger, and stronger boys.

“Hello,” Harry said. “I’m the Boy-Who-Lived.”

There was a rather awkward pause. No-one seemed to know where the
conversation was supposed to go from there.

Harry’s eyes dropped downwards and saw some books and papers scattered
around the floor. Oh, the old game where you let the boy try to pick up
his books and then knock them out of his hand again. Harry couldn’t
remember ever being the object of that game himself, but he had a good
imagination and his imagination was making him furious. Well, once the
larger situation was resolved it would be easy enough for Neville to
come back and pick up his materials, provided that the Slytherins stayed
too intent on him to think of doing anything to the books.

Unfortunately his straying eyes had been noted. “Ooh,” said the largest
of the boys, “did ’oo want the widdle books—”

“Shut up,” Harry said coldly. Keep them off balance. Don’t do what they
expect. Don’t fall into a pattern that calls for them to bully you. “Is
this part of some incredibly clever plan that will gain you future
advantage, or is it as pointless a disgrace to the name of Salazar
Slytherin as it—”

The largest boy shoved Harry Potter hard, and he went sprawling out of
the circle of Slytherins onto the hard stone floor of Hogwarts.

And the Slytherins laughed.

Harry rose up in what seemed to him like terribly slow motion. He didn’t
know yet how to use his wand, but there was no reason to let that stop
him, under the circumstances.

“I’d like to pay as many points as it takes to get rid of this person,”
Harry said, pointing with his finger to the largest Slytherin.

Then Harry lifted his other hand, said “Abracadabra,” and snapped his
fingers.

At the word Abracadabra two of the Hufflepuffs screamed, including
Neville, three other Slytherins leapt desperately out of the way of
Harry’s finger, and the largest Slytherin staggered back with an
expression of shock, a sudden splash of red decorating his face and neck
and chest.

Harry had not been expecting that.

Slowly, the largest Slytherin reached up to his head, and peeled off the
pan of cherry pie that had just draped itself over him. The largest
Slytherin held the pan in his hand for a moment, staring at it, then
dropped it to the floor.

It probably wasn’t the best time in the world for one of the Hufflepuffs
to start laughing, but that was exactly what one of the Hufflepuffs was
doing.

Then Harry caught sight of the note on the bottom of the pan.

“Hold on,” Harry said, and darted forward to pick up the note. “This
note’s for me, I think—”

“You,” growled the largest Slytherin, “you, are, going, to—”

“Look at this!” shouted Harry, brandishing the note at the older
Slytherin. “I mean, just look at this! Can you believe I’m being charged
30 points for shipping and handling on one lousy pie? 30 points! I’m
turning a loss on the deal even after rescuing an innocent boy in
distress! And storage fees? Conveyance charges? Drayage costs? How do
you get drayage costs on a pie?”

There was another one of those awkward pauses. Harry thought deadly
thoughts at whichever Hufflepuff couldn’t seem to stop giggling, that
idiot was going to get him hurt.

Harry stepped back and shot the Slytherins his best lethal glare. “Now
go away or I will just keep making your existence more and more surreal
until you do. Let me warn you… messing with my life tends to make your
life… a little hairy. Get it?”

In a single terrible motion, the largest Slytherin whipped his wand out
to point at Harry and in the same instant was hit on the other side of
his head by another pie, this one bright blueberry.

The note on this pie was rather large and clearly readable. “You might
want to read the note on that pie,” Harry observed. “I think it’s for
you this time.”

The Slytherin slowly reached up, took the pie pan, turned it over with a
wet glop that dropped more blueberry on the floor, and read a note that
said:

WARNING

NO magic may be used on the contestant
while the Game is in progress
Further interference in the Game
WILL be reported to the Game Authorities

The expression of sheer bafflement on the Slytherin’s face was a look of
art. Harry thought that he might be starting to like this Game
Controller.

“Look,” Harry said, “you want to call it a day? I think things are
spiralling out of control here. How about you go back to Slytherin and I
go back to Ravenclaw and we all just cool down a bit, okay?”

“I’ve got a better idea,” hissed the largest Slytherin. “How about if
you accidentally break all your fingers?”

“How in Merlin’s name do you stage a believable accident after making
the threat in front of a dozen witnesses, you idiot—”

The largest Slytherin slowly, deliberately reached out towards Harry’s
hands, and Harry froze in place, the part of his brain that was noticing
the other boy’s age and strength finally managing to make itself heard,
screaming, WHAT THE HECK AM I DOING?

“Wait!” said one of the other Slytherins, his voice suddenly panicky.
“Stop, you shouldn’t actually do that!”

The largest Slytherin ignored him, taking Harry’s right hand firmly in
his left hand, and taking Harry’s index finger in his right hand.

Harry stared the Slytherin straight in the eyes. Part of Harry was
screaming, this wasn’t supposed to happen, this wasn’t allowed to
happen, grown-ups would never let something like this actually happen—

Slowly, the Slytherin started to bend his index finger backwards.

He hasn’t actually broken my finger and it is beneath me to so much as
flinch until he does. Until then, this is just another attempt to cause
fear.

“Stop!” said the Slytherin who had objected before. “Stop, this is a
very bad idea!”

“I rather agree,” said an icy voice. An older woman’s voice.

The largest Slytherin let go of Harry’s hand and jumped backwards as if
burned.

“Professor Sprout!” cried one of the Hufflepuffs, sounding as glad as
anyone Harry had ever heard in his life.

Into Harry’s field of vision, as he turned, stalked a dumpy little woman
with messily curled grey hair and clothes covered with dirt. She pointed
an accusing finger at the Slytherins. “Explain yourselves,” she said.
“What are you doing with my Hufflepuffs and…” she looked at him. “My
fine student, Harry Potter.”

Uh oh. That’s right, it was her class I missed this morning.

“He threatened to kill us!” blurted one of the other Slytherins, the
same one who’d called for a halt.

“What?” Harry said blankly. “I did not! If I was going to kill you I
wouldn’t make public threats first!”

A third Slytherin laughed helplessly and then stopped abruptly as the
other boys shot him deadly glares.

Professor Sprout had adopted a rather sceptical expression. “What death
threat would this be, exactly?”

“The Killing Curse! He pretended to use the Killing Curse on us!”

Professor Sprout turned to look at Harry. “Yes, quite a terrible threat
from an eleven-year-old boy. Though still not something you should ever
dream of pretending, Harry Potter.”

“I don’t even know the words to the Killing Curse,” Harry said promptly.
“And I didn’t have my wand out at any time.”

Now Professor Sprout was giving Harry a sceptical look. “I suppose this
boy hit himself with two pies, then.”

“He didn’t use his wand!” blurted one of the young Hufflepuffs. “I don’t
know how he did it either, he just snapped his fingers and there was
pie!”

“Really,” said Professor Sprout after a pause. She drew her own wand. “I
won’t require it, since you do seem to be the victim here, but would you
mind if I checked your wand to verify that?”

Harry took out his wand. “What do I—”

“Prior Incantato,” said Sprout. She frowned. “That’s odd, your wand
doesn’t seem to have been used at all.”

Harry shrugged. “It hasn’t, actually, I only got my wand and schoolbooks
a few days ago.”

Sprout nodded. “Then we have a clear case of accidental magic from a boy
who felt threatened. And the rules plainly state that you are not to be
held responsible. As for you…” she turned to the Slytherins. Her eyes
dropped deliberately to Neville’s books lying on the floor.

There was a long silence during which she looked at the five Slytherins.

“Three points from Slytherin, each,” she said finally. “And six from
him,” pointing to the boy covered in pie. “Don’t you ever meddle with my
Hufflepuffs again, or my student Harry Potter either. Now go.”

She didn’t have to repeat herself; the Slytherins turned and walked away
very quickly.

Neville went and started picking up his books. He seemed to be crying,
but only a little. It might have been from delayed shock, or it might
have been because the other boys were helping him.

“Thank you very much, Harry Potter,” Professor Sprout said to him.
“Seven points to Ravenclaw, one for each Hufflepuff you helped protect.
And I won’t say anything more.”

Harry blinked. He’d been expecting something more along the lines of a
lecture about keeping himself out of trouble, and a rather severe
scolding for missing his very first class.

Maybe he should have gone to Hufflepuff. Sprout was cool.

“Scourgify,” Sprout said to the mess of pie on the floor, which promptly
vanished.

And she left, walking along the hall that led to the green study room.

“How did you do that?” hissed one of the Hufflepuff boys as soon as she
was gone.

Harry smiled smugly. “I can make anything I want happen just by snapping
my fingers.”

The boy’s eyes widened. “Really?”

“No,” said Harry. “But when you’re telling everyone this story be sure
to share it with Hermione Granger in first-year Ravenclaw, she has an
anecdote you might find amusing.” He had absolutely no clue what was
happening, but he wasn’t about to pass up the opportunity to add to his
growing legend. “Oh, and what was all that about the Killing Curse?”

The boy gave him a strange look. “You really don’t know?”

“If I did, I wouldn’t be asking.”

“The words to the Killing Curse are,” the boy swallowed, and his voice
dropped to a whisper, and he held his hands away from his sides as if to
make it very clear that he wasn’t holding a wand, “Avada Kedavra.”

Well of course they are.

Harry put this on his growing list of things to never ever tell his Dad,
Professor Michael Verres-Evans. It was bad enough talking about how you
were the only person to survive the fearsome Killing Curse, without
having to admit that the Killing Curse was “Abracadabra.”

“I see,” Harry said after a pause. “Well, that’s the last time I ever
say that before snapping my fingers.” Though it had produced an effect
that might be tactically useful.

“Why did you—”

“Raised by Muggles, Muggles think it’s a joke and that it’s funny.
Seriously, that’s what happened. Sorry, but can you remind me of your
name?”

“I’m Ernie Macmillan,” said the Hufflepuff. He held out his hand, and
Harry shook it. “Honoured to meet you.”

Harry executed a slight bow. “Pleased to meet you, skip the honoured
thing.”

Then the other boys crowded round him and there was a sudden flood of
introductions.

When they were done, Harry swallowed. This was going to be very
difficult. “Um… if everyone would excuse me… I have something to say to
Neville—”

All eyes turned to Neville, who took a step back, his face looking
apprehensive.

“I suppose,” Neville said in a tiny voice, “you’re going to say I
should’ve been braver—”

“Oh, no, nothing like that!” Harry said hastily. “Nothing to do with
that. It’s just, um, something the Sorting Hat told me—”

Suddenly the other boys looked very interested, except for Neville, who
was looking even more apprehensive.

There seemed to be something blocking Harry’s throat. He knew he should
just blurt it out, and it was like he’d swallowed a large brick that was
just stuck in the way.

It was like Harry had to manually take control of his lips and produce
each syllable individually, but he managed to make it happen. “I’m, sor,
ry.” He exhaled and took a deep breath. “For what I did, um, the other
day. You… don’t have to be gracious about it or anything, I’ll
understand if you just hate me. This isn’t about me trying to look cool
by apologising or your having to accept it. What I did was wrong.”

There was a pause.

Neville clutched his books tighter to his chest. “Why did you do it?” he
said in a thin, wavering voice. He blinked, as if trying to hold back
tears. “Why does everyone do that to me, even the Boy-Who-Lived?”

Harry suddenly felt smaller than he ever had in his life. “I’m sorry,”
Harry said again, his voice now hoarse. “It’s just… you looked so
scared, it was like a sign over your head saying ‘victim’, and I wanted
to show you that things don’t always turn out badly, that sometimes the
monsters give you chocolate… I thought if I showed you that, you might
realise there wasn’t so much to be afraid of—”

“But there is,” whispered Neville. “You saw it today, there is!”

“They wouldn’t have done anything really bad in front of witnesses.
Their main weapon is fear. That’s why they target you, because they can
see you’re afraid. I wanted to make you less afraid… show you that the
fear was worse than the thing itself… or that was what I told myself,
but the Sorting Hat told me that I was lying to myself and that I really
did it because it was fun. So that’s why I’m apologising—”

“You hurt me,” said Neville. “Just now. When you grabbed me and pulled
me away from them.” Neville held out his arm and pointed to where Harry
had grabbed him. “I might have a bruise here later from how hard you
pulled. You hurt me worse than anything the Slytherins did by bumping
into me, actually.”

“Neville!” hissed Ernie. “He was trying to save you!”

“I’m sorry,” whispered Harry. “When I saw that I just got… really
angry…”

Neville looked at him steadily. “So you yanked me out really hard and
put yourself in where I was and went, ‘Hello, I’m the Boy-Who-Lived’.”

Harry nodded.

“I think you’re going to be really cool some day,” Neville said. “But
right now, you’re not.”

Harry swallowed the sudden knot in his throat and walked away. He
continued down the corridor to the intersection, then turned left into a
hallway and kept on walking, blindly.

What was he supposed to do here? Never get angry? He wasn’t sure he
could have done anything without being angry and who knows what would
have happened to Neville and his books then. Besides, Harry had read
enough fantasy books to know how this one went. He would try to suppress
the anger and he would fail and it would keep coming out again. And
after this whole long journey of self-discovery he would learn at the
end that his anger was a part of himself and that only by accepting it
could he learn to use it wisely. Star Wars was the only universe in
which the answer actually was that you were supposed to cut yourself off
completely from negative emotions, and something about Yoda had always
made Harry hate the little green moron.

So the obvious time-saving plan was to skip the journey of
self-discovery and go straight to the part where he realised that only
by accepting his anger as a part of himself could he stay in control of
it.

The problem was that he didn’t feel out of control when he was angry.
The cold rage made him feel like he was in control. It was only when he
looked back that events as a whole seemed to have… blown up out of
control, somehow.

He wondered how much the Game Controller cared about that sort of thing,
and whether he’d won or lost points for it. Harry himself felt like he’d
lost quite a few points, and he was sure the old lady in the picture
would have told him that his was the only opinion that mattered.

And Harry was also wondering whether the Game Controller had sent
Professor Sprout. It was the logical thought: the note had threatened to
notify the Game Authorities, and then there Professor Sprout was. Maybe
Professor Sprout was the Game Controller—the Head of House Hufflepuff
would be the last person anyone would suspect, which ought to put her
near the top of Harry’s list. He’d read one or two mystery novels, too.

“So how am I doing in the game?” Harry said out loud.

A sheet of paper flew over his head, as if someone had thrown it from
behind him—Harry turned around, but there was no-one there—and when
Harry turned forwards again, the note was settling to the floor.

The note said:

  ------------------------------- ------------
                Points for style: 10
        Points for good thinking: -3,000,000
    Ravenclaw House points bonus: 70
                  Current points: -2,999,871
                 Turns remaining: 2
  ------------------------------- ------------

“Minus three million points?” Harry said indignantly to the empty
hallway. “That seems excessive! I want to file an appeal with the Game
Authorities! And how am I supposed to make up three million points in
the next two turns?”

Another note flew over his head.

  ----------------------------- ---------------------------
                        Appeal: Failed
    Asking the wrong questions: -1,000,000,000,000 points
                Current points: -1,000,002,999,871
               Turns remaining: 1
  ----------------------------- ---------------------------

Harry gave up. With one turn remaining all he could do was take his best
shot, even if it wasn’t very good. “My guess is that the game represents
life.”

A final sheet of paper flew over his head, reading:

Attempt failed
Failed Failed Failed
Aiiiiiiiiiieeeeeeeeeeeeee
Current points: minus Infinity
YOU HAVE LOST THE GAME

Final instruction:
go to Professor McGonagall’s office

The last line was in his own handwriting.

Harry stared at the last line for a while, then shrugged. Fine.
Professor McGonagall’s office it would be. If she was the Game
Controller…

Okay, honestly, Harry had absolutely no idea how he would feel if
Professor McGonagall was the Game Controller. His mind was just drawing
a complete blank. It was, literally, unimaginable.

A couple of portraits later—it wasn’t a long trip, Professor
McGonagall’s office wasn’t far from her Transfiguration classroom, at
least not on Mondays on odd-numbered years—Harry stood outside the door
to her office.

He knocked.

“Come in,” said Professor McGonagall’s muffled voice.

He entered.

14. The Unknown and the Unknowable

E. Y.: Melenkurion abatha! Duroc minas mill J. K. Rowling!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There were mysterious questions, but a mysterious answer was a
contradiction in terms.

“COME in,” said Professor McGonagall’s muffled voice.

Harry did so.

The office of the Deputy Headmistress was clean and well-organised; on
the wall immediately adjacent to the desk was a maze of wooden
cubbyholes of all shapes and sizes, most with several parchment scrolls
thrust into them, and it was somehow very clear that Professor
McGonagall knew exactly what every cubbyhole meant, even if no-one else
did. A single parchment lay on the actual desk, which was, aside from
that, clean. Behind the desk was a closed door barred with several
locks.

Professor McGonagall was sitting on a backless stool behind the desk,
looking puzzled—her eyes had widened, with perhaps a slight note of
apprehension, as she saw Harry.

“Mr Potter?” said Professor McGonagall. “What is this about?”

Harry’s mind went blank. He’d been instructed by the game to come here,
he had been expecting her to have something in mind…

“Mr Potter?” said Professor McGonagall, starting to look slightly
annoyed.

Thankfully, Harry’s panicking brain remembered at this point that he did
have something he’d been planning to discuss with Professor McGonagall.
Something important and well worth her time.

“Um…” Harry said. “If there are any spells you can cast to make sure
no-one’s listening to us…”

Professor McGonagall stood up from her chair, firmly closed the outer
door, and began taking out her wand and saying spells.

It was at this point that Harry realised he was faced with a priceless
and possibly irreplaceable opportunity to offer Professor McGonagall a
Comed-Tea and he couldn’t believe he was seriously thinking that and it
would be fine the soda would vanish after a few seconds and he told that
part of himself to shut up.

It did, and Harry began to organise mentally what he was going to say.
He hadn’t planned to have this discussion quite so soon, but so long as
he was here…

Professor McGonagall finished a spell that sounded a lot older than
Latin, and then she sat down again.

“All right,” she said in a quiet voice. “No-one’s listening.” Her face
was rather tight.

Oh, right, she’s expecting me to blackmail her for information about the
prophecy.

Eh, Harry’d get around to that some other day.

“It’s about the Incident with the Sorting Hat,” Harry said. (Professor
McGonagall blinked.) “Um… I think there’s an extra spell on the Sorting
Hat, something that the Sorting Hat itself doesn’t know about, something
that triggers when the Sorting Hat says Slytherin. I heard a message
that I’m pretty sure Ravenclaws aren’t supposed to hear. It came the
moment the Sorting Hat was off my head and I felt the connection break.
It sounded like a hiss and like English at the same time,” there was a
sharp intake of breath from McGonagall, “and it said: ‘Salutations from
Slytherin to Slytherin, if you would seek my secrets, speak to my
snake.’”

Professor McGonagall sat there with her mouth open, staring at Harry as
if he’d grown another two heads.

“So…” Professor McGonagall said slowly, as though she couldn’t believe
the words that were coming out of her own lips, “you decided to come to
me right away and tell me about it.”

“Well, yes, of course,” Harry said. There was no need to admit how long
it had taken him to actually think of that. “As opposed to, say, trying
to research it myself, or telling any of the other children.”

“I… see,” Professor McGonagall said. “And if, perhaps, you were to
discover the entrance to Salazar Slytherin’s legendary Chamber of
Secrets, an entrance that you and you alone could open…”

“I would close the entrance and report to you at once so that a team of
experienced magical archæologists could be assembled,” Harry said
promptly. “Then I would open up the entrance again and they would go in
very carefully to make sure that there was nothing dangerous. I might go
in later to look around, or if they needed me to open up something else,
but it would be after the area had been declared clear and they had
photographs of how everything looked before people started tramping
around their priceless historical site.”

Professor McGonagall sat there with her mouth open, staring at him like
he’d just turned into a cat.

“It’s obvious if you’re not a Gryffindor,” Harry said kindly.

“I think,” Professor McGonagall said in a rather choked voice, “that you
far underestimate the rarity of common sense, Mr Potter.”

That sounded about right. Although… “A Hufflepuff would’ve said the same
thing.”

McGonagall paused, struck. “That’s true.”

“Sorting Hat offered me Hufflepuff.”

She blinked at him as though she couldn’t believe her own ears. “Did it
really?”

“Yes.”

“Mr Potter,” McGonagall said, and now her voice was low, “five decades
ago was the last time a student died within the walls of Hogwarts, and I
am now certain that five decades ago was the last time someone heard
that message.”

A chill went through Harry. “Then I will be very sure to take no action
whatsoever on this matter without consulting you, Professor McGonagall.”
He paused. “And may I suggest that you get together the best people you
can find and see if it’s possible to get that extra spell off the
Sorting Hat… and if you can’t do that, maybe put on another spell, a
Quietus that briefly activates just as the Hat is being removed from a
student’s head, that might work as a patch. There, no more dead
students.” Harry nodded in satisfaction.

Professor McGonagall looked even more stunned, if such a thing were
imaginable. “I cannot possibly award you enough points for this without
giving the House Cup to Ravenclaw outright.”

“Um,” Harry said. “Um. I’d rather not earn that many House points.”

Now Professor McGonagall was giving him a strange look. “Why not?”

Harry was having a little difficulty putting it into words. “Because it
would be just too sad, you know? Like… like back when I was still trying
to go to school in the Muggle world, and whenever there was a group
project, I’d go ahead and do the whole thing myself because the others
would only slow me down. I’m fine with earning lots of points, more than
anyone else even, but if I earn enough to be decisive in winning the
House Cup just by myself, then it’s like I’m carrying House Ravenclaw on
my back and that’s too sad.”

“I see…” McGonagall said hesitantly. It was apparent that this way of
thinking had never occurred to her. “Suppose I only awarded you fifty
points, then?”

Harry shook his head again. “It’s not fair to the other children if I
earn lots of points for grown-up things that I can be part of and they
can’t. How is Terry Boot supposed to earn fifty points for reporting a
whisper he heard from the Sorting Hat? It wouldn’t be fair at all.”

“I see why the Sorting Hat offered you Hufflepuff,” said Professor
McGonagall. She was eyeing him with a strange respect.

That made Harry choke up a bit. He’d honestly thought he wasn’t worthy
of Hufflepuff. That the Sorting Hat had just been trying to shove him
anywhere but Ravenclaw, into a House whose virtues he didn’t have…

Professor McGonagall was smiling now. “And if I tried to give you ten
points…?”

“Are you going to explain where those ten points came from, if anyone
asks? There might be a lot of Slytherins, and I don’t mean the children
at Hogwarts, who would be really really angry if they knew about the
spell being taken off the Sorting Hat and found out I was involved. So I
think that absolute secrecy is the better part of valour. No need to
thank me, ma’am, virtue is its own reward.”

“So it is,” Professor McGonagall said, “but I do have a very special
something else to give you. I see that I have greatly wronged you in my
thoughts, Mr Potter. Please wait here.”

She got up, went over to the locked back door, waved her wand, and a
sort of blurry curtain sprang up around her. Harry could neither see nor
hear what was going on. It was a few minutes later that the blur
vanished and Professor McGonagall was standing there, facing him, with
the door behind her looking as though it hadn’t ever been opened.

And Professor McGonagall held out in one hand a necklace, a thin golden
chain bearing in its centre a silver circle, within which was the device
of an hourglass. In her other hand was a folded pamphlet. “This is for
you,” she said.

Wow! He was going to get some sort of neat magical item as a quest
reward! Apparently that business with refusing offers of monetary
rewards until you got a magic item actually worked in real life, not
just computer games.

Harry accepted his new necklace, smiling. “What is it?”

Professor McGonagall took a breath. “Mr Potter, this is an item which is
ordinarily lent only to children who have already shown themselves to be
highly responsible, in order to help them with difficult class
schedules.” McGonagall hesitated, as though about to add something else.
“I must emphasise, Mr Potter, that this item’s true nature is secret and
that you must not tell any of the other students about it, or let them
see you using it. If that’s not acceptable to you, then you can give it
back now.”

“I can keep secrets,” Harry said. “So what does it do?”

“So far as the other students are concerned, this is a Spimster wicket
and it is used to treat a rare, non-contagious magical ailment called
Spontaneous Duplication. You wear it under your clothes, and while you
have no reason to show it to anyone, you also have no reason to treat it
as an awful secret. Spimster wickets are not interesting. Do you
understand, Mr Potter?”

Harry nodded, his smile widening. He sensed the work of a competent
Slytherin. “And what does it really do?”

“It’s a Time-Turner. Each spin of the hourglass sends you one hour back
in time. So if you use it to go back two hours every day, you should
always be able to get to sleep at the same time.”

Harry’s suspension of disbelief blew completely out the window.

You’re giving me a time machine to treat my sleep disorder.

You’re giving me a time machine to treat my sleep disorder.

You’re GIVING ME A TIME MACHINE in order to TREAT MY SLEEP DISORDER.

“Ehehehehhheheh…” Harry’s mouth said. He was now holding the necklace
away from him as though it were a live bomb. Well, no, not as if it were
a live bomb, that didn’t begin to describe the severity of the
situation. Harry held the necklace away from him as though it were a
time machine.

Say, Professor McGonagall, did you know that time-reversed ordinary
matter looks just like antimatter? Why yes it does! Did you know that
one kilogram of antimatter encountering one kilogram of matter will
annihilate in an explosion equivalent to 43 million tons of TNT? Do you
realise that I myself weigh 41 kilograms and that the resulting blast
would leave A GIANT SMOKING CRATER WHERE THERE USED TO BE SCOTLAND?

“Excuse me,” Harry managed to say, “but this sounds really really really
REALLY DANGEROUS!” Harry’s voice didn’t quite rise to a shriek, he
couldn’t possibly scream loud enough to do this situation justice so
there was no point in trying.

Professor McGonagall looked upon him with tolerant affection. “I’m glad
you’re taking this seriously, Mr Potter, but Time-Turners aren’t that
dangerous. We wouldn’t give them to children if they were.”

“Really,” Harry said. “Ahahahaha. Of course you wouldn’t give time
machines to children if they were dangerous, what was I thinking? So
just to be clear, sneezing on this device will not send me into the
Middle Ages where I will run over Gutenberg with a horse cart and
prevent the Enlightenment? Because, you know, I hate it when that
happens to me.”

McGonagall’s lips were twitching in that way she had when she was trying
not to smile. She offered Harry the pamphlet she was holding, but Harry
was carefully holding out the necklace with both hands and staring at
the hourglass to make sure it wasn’t about to turn. “Don’t worry,”
McGonagall said after a momentary pause, when it became clear that Harry
wasn’t going to move, “that can’t possibly happen, Mr Potter. The
Time-Turner cannot be used to move more than six hours backwards. It
can’t be used more than six times in any day.”

“Oh, good, very good, that. And if someone bumps into me the Time-Turner
will not break and will not trap the whole castle of Hogwarts in an
endlessly repeating loop of Thursdays.”

“Well, they can be fragile…” said McGonagall. “And I do think I’ve heard
about strange things happening if they’re broken. But nothing like
that!”

“Perhaps,” Harry said when he could speak again, “you ought to provide
your time machines with some sort of protective shell, rather than
leaving the glass exposed, so as to prevent that from happening.”

McGonagall looked quite struck. “That’s an excellent idea, Mr Potter. I
shall inform the Ministry of it.”

That’s it, it’s official now, they’ve ratified it in Parliament,
everyone in the wizarding world is completely stupid.

“And while I hate to get all PHILOSOPHICAL,” Harry desperately tried to
lower his voice to something under a shriek, “has anyone thought about
the IMPLICATIONS of going back six hours and doing something that
changes time which would pretty much DELETE ALL THE PEOPLE AFFECTED and
REPLACE THEM WITH DIFFERENT VERSIONS—”

“Oh, you can’t change time!” Professor McGonagall interrupted. “Good
heavens, Mr Potter, do you think these would be allowed students if that
was possible? What if someone tried to change their test scores?”

Harry took a moment to process this. His hands relaxed, just a little,
from their white grip on the hourglass chain. Like he wasn’t holding a
time machine, just a live nuclear warhead.

“So…” Harry said slowly. “People just find that the universe… happens to
be self-consistent, somehow, even though it has time travel in it. If I
and my future self interact then I’ll see the same thing as both of me,
even though, on my own first run-through, my future self is already
acting in full knowledge of things that, from my own perspective,
haven’t happened yet…” Harry’s voice trailed off into the inadequacy of
English.

“Correct, I think,” said Professor McGonagall. “Although wizards are
advised to avoid being seen by their past selves. If you’re attending
two classes at the same time and you need to cross paths with yourself,
for example, the first version of you should step aside and close his
eyes at a known time—you have a watch already, good—so that the future
you can pass. It’s all there in the pamphlet.”

“Ahahahaa. And what happens when someone ignores that advice?”

Professor McGonagall pursed her lips. “I understand that it can be quite
disconcerting.”

“And it doesn’t, say, create a paradox that destroys the universe.”

She smiled tolerantly. “Mr Potter, I think I’d remember hearing if that
had ever happened.”

“THAT IS NOT REASSURING! HAVEN’T YOU PEOPLE EVER HEARD OF THE ANTHROPIC
PRINCIPLE? AND WHAT IDIOT EVER BUILT ONE OF THESE THINGS FOR THE FIRST
TIME?”

Professor McGonagall actually laughed. It was a pleasant, glad sound
that seemed surprisingly out of place on that stern face. “You’re having
another ‘you turned into a cat’ moment, aren’t you, Mr Potter. You
probably don’t want to hear this, but it’s quite endearingly cute.”

“Turning into a cat doesn’t even begin to compare to this. You know
right up until this moment I had this awful suppressed thought somewhere
in the back of my mind that the only remaining answer was that my whole
universe was a computer simulation like in the book Simulacron 3 but now
even that is ruled out because this little toy ISN’T TURING COMPUTABLE!
A Turing machine could simulate going back into a defined moment of the
past and computing a different future from there, an oracle machine
could rely on the halting behaviour of lower-order machines, but what
you’re saying is that reality somehow self-consistently computes in one
sweep using information that hasn’t… happened… yet…”

Realisation struck Harry a pile-driver blow.

It all made sense now. It all finally made sense.

“SO THAT’S HOW THE COMED-TEA WORKS! Of course! The spell doesn’t force
funny events to happen, it just makes you feel an impulse to drink right
before funny things are going to happen anyway! I’m such a fool, I
should have realised when I felt the impulse to drink the Comed-Tea
before Dumbledore’s second speech, didn’t drink it, and then choked on
my own saliva instead—drinking the Comed-Tea doesn’t cause the comedy,
the comedy causes you to drink the Comed-Tea! I saw the two events were
correlated and assumed the Comed-Tea had to be the cause and the comedy
had to be the effect because I thought temporal order restrained
causation and causal graphs had to be acyclic BUT IT ALL MAKES SENSE
ONCE YOU DRAW THE CAUSAL ARROWS GOING BACKWARDS IN TIME!”

Realisation struck Harry the second pile-driver.

This one he managed to keep quiet, making only a small strangling sound
like a dying kitten as he realised who’d put the note on his bed this
morning.

Professor McGonagall’s eyes were alight. “After you graduate, or
possibly even before, you really must teach some of these Muggle
theories at Hogwarts, Mr Potter. They sound quite fascinating, even if
they’re all wrong.”

“Glehhahhh…”

Professor McGonagall offered him a few more pleasantries, demanded a few
more promises to which Harry nodded, said something about not talking to
snakes where anyone could hear him, reminded him to read the pamphlet,
and then somehow Harry found himself standing outside her office with
the door closed firmly behind him.

“Gaahhhrrrraa…” Harry said.

Why yes his mind was blown.

Not least by the fact that, if not for the Prank, he might well have
never obtained a Time-Turner in the first place.

Or would Professor McGonagall have given it to him anyway, only later in
the day, whenever he got around to asking about his sleep disorder or
telling her about the Sorting Hat’s message? And would he, at that time,
have wanted to pull a prank on himself which would have led to him
getting the Time-Turner earlier? So that the only self-consistent
possibility was the one in which the Prank started before he even woke
up in the morning…?

Harry found himself considering, for the first time in his life, that
the answer to his question might be literally inconceivable. That since
his own brain contained neurons that only ran forwards in time, there
was nothing his brain could do, no operation it could perform, which was
conjugate to the operation of a Time-Turner.

Up until this point Harry had lived by the admonition of E. T. Jaynes
that if you were ignorant about a phenomenon, that was a fact about your
own state of mind, not a fact about the phenomenon itself; that your
uncertainty was a fact about you, not a fact about whatever you were
uncertain about; that ignorance existed in the mind, not in reality;
that a blank map did not correspond to a blank territory. There were
mysterious questions, but a mysterious answer was a contradiction in
terms. A phenomenon could be mysterious to some particular person, but
there could be no phenomena mysterious of themselves. To worship a
sacred mystery was just to worship your own ignorance.

So Harry had looked upon magic and refused to be intimidated. People had
no sense of history, they learned about chemistry and biology and
astronomy and thought that these matters had always been the proper meat
of science, that they had never been mysterious. The stars had once been
mysteries. Lord Kelvin had once called the nature of life and
biology—the response of muscles to human will and the generation of
trees from seeds—a mystery “infinitely beyond” the reach of science.
(Not just a little beyond, mind you, but infinitely beyond. Lord Kelvin
certainly had felt a huge emotional charge from not knowing something.)
Every mystery ever solved had been a puzzle from the dawn of the human
species right up until someone solved it.

Now, for the first time, he was up against the prospect of a mystery
that was threatening to be permanent. If Time didn’t work by acyclic
causal networks then Harry didn’t understand what was meant by cause and
effect; and if Harry didn’t understand causes and effects then he didn’t
understand what sort of stuff reality might be made of instead; and it
was entirely possible that his human mind never could understand,
because his brain was made of old-fashioned linear-time neurons, and
this had turned out to be an impoverished subset of reality.

On the plus side, the Comed-Tea, which had once seemed all-powerful and
all-unbelievable, had turned out to have a much simpler explanation.
Which he’d missed merely because the truth was completely outside his
hypothesis space or anything that his brain had evolved to comprehend.
But now he actually had figured it, probably. Which was sort of
encouraging. Sort of.

Harry glanced down at his watch. It was nearly 11 a.m., he’d got to
sleep last night at 1 a.m., so in the natural state of affairs he’d go
to sleep tonight at 3 a.m. So to go to sleep at 10 p.m. and wake up at
7 a.m., he should go back five hours total. Which meant that if he
wanted to get back to his dorm at around 6 a.m., before anyone was
awake, he’d better hurry up and…

Even in retrospect Harry didn’t understand how he’d pulled off half the
stuff involved in the Prank. Where had the pie come from?

Harry was starting to seriously fear time travel.

On the other hand, he had to admit that it had been an irreplaceable
opportunity. A prank you could only pull on yourself once in a lifetime,
within six hours of when you first found out about Time-Turners.

In fact that was even more puzzling, when Harry thought about it. Time
had presented him with the finished Prank as a fait accompli, and yet it
was, quite clearly, his own handiwork. Concept and execution and writing
style. Every last part, even the ones he still didn’t understand.

Well, time was a-wasting and there were at most thirty hours in a day.
Harry did know some of what he had to do, and he might figure out the
rest, like the pie, while he was working. There was no point putting it
off. He couldn’t exactly accomplish anything stuck here in the future.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Five hours earlier, Harry was sneaking into his dorm with his robes
pulled up over his head as a thin sort of disguise, just in case someone
was already up and about and saw him at the same time as Harry lying in
his bed. He didn’t want to have to explain to anyone about his little
medical problem with Spontaneous Duplication.

Fortunately it seemed that everyone was still asleep.

And there also seemed to be a box, wrapped in red and green paper with a
bright golden ribbon, lying next to his bed. The perfect, stereotypical
image of a Christmas present, although it wasn’t Christmas.

Harry crept in as softly as he could manage, just in case someone had
their Quieter turned down low.

There was an envelope attached to the box, closed by plain clear wax
without a seal impressed.

Harry carefully pried the envelope open, and took out the letter inside.

The letter said:

This is the Cloak of Invisibility of Ignotus Peverell, passed down
through his descendants the Potters. Unlike lesser cloaks and spells it
has the power to keep you hidden, not merely invisible. Your father lent
it to me to study shortly before he died, and I confess that I have
received much good use of it over the years.

In the future I shall have to get along with Disillusionment, I fear. It
is time the Cloak was returned to you, its heir. I had thought to make
this a Christmas present, but it wished to come back to your hand before
then. It seems to expect you to have need of it. Use it well.

No doubt you are already thinking of all manner of wonderful pranks, as
your father committed in his day. If his full misdeeds were known, every
woman in Gryffindor would gather to desecrate his grave. I shall not try
to stop history from repeating, but be most careful not to reveal
yourself. If Dumbledore saw a chance to possess one of the Deathly
Hallows, he would never let it escape his grasp until the day he died.

A Very Merry Christmas to you.

The note was unsigned.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hold on,” Harry said, pulling up short as the other boys were about to
leave the Ravenclaw dorm. “Sorry, there’s something else I’ve got to do
with my trunk. I’ll be along to breakfast in a couple of minutes.”

Terry Boot scowled at Harry. “You’d better not be planning to go through
any of our things.”

Harry held up one hand. “I swear that I intend to do nothing of the sort
to any of your things, that I only intend to access objects that I
myself own, that I have no pranking or otherwise questionable intentions
towards any of you, and that I do not anticipate those intentions
changing before I get to breakfast in the Great Hall.”

Terry frowned. “Wait, is that—”

“Don’t worry,” said Penelope Clearwater, who was there to guide them.
“There were no loopholes. Well-worded, Potter, you should be a lawyer.”

Harry Potter blinked at that. Ah, yes, Ravenclaw prefect. “Thank you,”
he said. “I think.”

“When you try to find the Great Hall, you will get lost.” Penelope
stated this in the tones of a flat, unarguable fact. “As soon as you do,
ask a portrait how to get to the first floor. Ask another portrait the
instant you suspect you might be lost again. Especially if it seems like
you’re going up higher and higher. If you are higher than the whole
castle ought to be, stop and wait for search parties. Otherwise we shall
see you again four months later and you will be five months older and
dressed in a loincloth and covered in snow and that’s if you stay inside
the castle.”

“Understood,” said Harry, swallowing hard. “Um, shouldn’t you tell
students all that sort of stuff right away?”

Penelope sighed. “What, all of it? That would take weeks. You’ll pick it
up as you go along.” She turned to go, followed by the other students.
“If I don’t see you at breakfast in thirty minutes, Potter, I’ll start
the search.”

Once everyone was gone, Harry attached the note to his bed—he’d already
written it and all the other notes, working in his cavern level before
everyone else woke up. Then he carefully reached inside the Quietus
field and pulled the Cloak of Invisibility off Harry-1’s still-sleeping
form.

And just for the sake of mischief, Harry put the Cloak into Harry-1’s
pouch, knowing it would thereby already be in his own.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“I can see that the message is passed on to Cornelion Flubberwalt,” said
the painting of a man with aristocratic airs and, in fact, a perfectly
normal nose. “But might I ask where it came from originally?”

Harry shrugged with artful helplessness. “I was told that it was spoken
by a hollow voice that belled forth from a gap within the air itself, a
gap that opened upon a fiery abyss.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hey!” Hermione said in tones of indignation from her place on the other
side of the breakfast table. “That’s everyone’s dessert! You can’t just
take one whole pie and put it in your pouch!”

“I’m not taking one pie, I’m taking two. Sorry everyone, gotta run now!”
Harry ignored the cries of outrage and left the Great Hall. He needed to
arrive at Herbology class a little early.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professor Sprout eyed him sharply. “And how do you know what the
Slytherins are planning?”

“I can’t name my source,” Harry said. “In fact I have to ask you to
pretend that this conversation never happened. Just act like you
happened across them naturally while you were on an errand, or
something. I’ll run on ahead as soon as Herbology gets out. I think I
can distract the Slytherins until you get there. I’m not easy to scare
or bully, and I don’t think they’ll dare to seriously hurt the
Boy-Who-Lived. Though… I’m not asking you to run in the hallways, but I
would appreciate it if you didn’t dawdle along the way.”

Professor Sprout looked at him for a long moment, then her expression
softened. “Please be careful with yourself, Harry Potter. And… thank
you.”

“Just be sure not to be late,” Harry said. “And remember, when you get
there, you weren’t expecting to see me and this conversation never
happened.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was horrible, watching himself yank Neville out of the circle of
Slytherins. Neville had been right, he’d used too much force, way too
much force.

“Hello,” Harry Potter said coldly. “I’m the Boy-Who-Lived.”

Eight first-year boys, mostly the same height. One of them had a scar on
his forehead and he wasn’t acting like the others.

  Oh wad some power the giftie gie us
  To see oursel’s as others see us!
  It wad frae monie a blunder free us,
  And foolish notion—

Professor McGonagall was right. The Sorting Hat was right. It was clear
once you saw it from the outside.

There was something wrong with Harry Potter.

15. Conscientiousness

E. Y.: Love as thou Rowling.

Today’s historical tidbit: The ancient Hebrews considered the boundary
of a day to be sunset rather than dawn, so they said “evening and
morning” not “morning and evening”. (And as many reviewers noted, modern
Jewish halacha asserts the same.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’m sure I’ll find the time somewhere.

“FRIGIDEIRO!”

Harry dipped a finger in the glass of water on his desk. It should have
been cool. But lukewarm it was, and lukewarm it had stayed. Again.

Harry was feeling very, very cheated.

There were hundreds of fantasy novels scattered around the Verres
household. Harry had read quite a few. And it was starting to look like
he had a mysterious dark side. So after the glass of water had refused
to cooperate the first few times, Harry had glanced around the Charms
classroom to make sure no-one was watching, and then taken a deep
breath, concentrated, and made himself angry. Thought about the
Slytherins bullying Neville, and the game where someone knocked down
your books every time you tried to pick them up again. Thought about
what Draco Malfoy had said about the ten-year-old Lovegood girl and how
the Wizengamot really operated…

And the fury had entered his blood, he had held out his wand in a hand
that trembled with hate and said in cold tones “Frigideiro!” and
absolutely nothing had happened.

Harry had been swindled. He wanted to write someone and demand a refund
on his dark side which clearly ought to have irresistible magical power
but had turned out to be defective.

“Frigideiro!” said Hermione again from the desk next to him. Her water
was solid ice and there were white crystals forming on the rim of her
glass. She seemed to be totally intent on her own work and not at all
conscious of the other students staring at her with hateful eyes, which
was either (a) dangerously oblivious of her or (b) a perfectly honed
performance rising to the level of fine art.

“Oh, very good, Miss Granger!” squeaked Filius Flitwick, their Charms
Professor and Head of Ravenclaw, a tiny little man with no visible signs
of being a past duelling champion. “Excellent! Stupendous!”

Harry had expected to be, in the worst case, second behind Hermione.
Harry would have preferred for her to be rivalling him, of course, but
he could have accepted it the other way around.

As of Monday, Harry was headed for the bottom of the class, a position
for which he was companionably rivalling all the other Muggle-raised
students except Hermione. Who was all alone and rival-less at the top,
poor thing.

Professor Flitwick was standing over the desk of one of the other
Muggle-borns and quietly adjusting the way she was holding her wand.

Harry looked over at Hermione. He swallowed hard. It was the obvious
role for her in the scheme of things… “Hermione?” Harry said
tentatively. “Do you have any idea what I might be doing wrong?”

Hermione’s eyes lit up with a terrible light of helpfulness and
something in the back of Harry’s brain screamed in desperate
humiliation.

Five minutes later, Harry’s water did seem noticeably cooler than room
temperature and Hermione had given him a few verbal pats on the head and
told him to pronounce it more carefully next time and gone off to help
someone else.

Professor Flitwick had given her a House point for helping him.

Harry was gritting his teeth so hard his jaw ached and that wasn’t
helping his pronunciation.

I don’t care if it’s unfair competition. I know exactly what I am doing
with two extra hours every day. I am going to sit in my trunk and study
until I am keeping up with Hermione Granger.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you
will learn at Hogwarts,” said Professor McGonagall. There was no trace
of any levity upon the face of the stern old witch. “Anyone messing
around in my class will leave and not come back. You have been warned.”

Her wand came down and tapped her desk, which smoothly reshaped itself
into a pig. A couple of Muggle-born students gave out small yelps. The
pig looked around and snorted, seeming confused, and then became a desk
again.

The Transfiguration Professor looked around the classroom, and then her
eyes settled on one student.

“Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall. “You only received your
schoolbooks a few days ago. Have you started reading your
Transfiguration textbook?”

“No, sorry professor,” Harry said.

“You needn’t apologise, Mr Potter, if you were required to read ahead
you would have been told to do so.” McGonagall’s fingers rapped the desk
in front of her. “Mr Potter, would you care to guess whether this is a
desk which I Transfigured into a pig, or if it began as a pig and I
briefly removed the Transfiguration? If you had read the first chapter
of your textbook, you would know.”

Harry’s eyebrows furrowed slightly. “I’d guess it’d be easier to start
with a pig, since if it started as a desk, it might not know how to
stand up.”

Professor McGonagall shook her head. “No fault to you, Mr Potter, but
the correct answer is that in Transfiguration you do not care to guess.
Wrong answers will be marked with extreme severity, questions left blank
will be marked with great leniency. You must learn to know what you do
not know. If I ask you any question, no matter how obvious or
elementary, and you answer ‘I’m not sure’, I will not hold it against
you and anyone who laughs will lose House points. Can you tell me why
this rule exists, Mr Potter?”

Because a single error in Transfiguration can be incredibly dangerous.
“No.”

“Correct. Transfiguration is more dangerous than Apparition, which is
not taught until your sixth year. Unfortunately, Transfiguration must be
learned and practised at a young age to maximise your adult ability. So
this is a dangerous subject, and you should be quite scared of making
any mistakes, because none of my students have ever been permanently
injured and I will be extremely put out if you are the first class to
spoil my record.”

Several students gulped.

Professor McGonagall stood up and moved over to the wall behind her
desk, which held a polished wooden board. “There are many reasons why
Transfiguration is dangerous, but one reason stands above all the rest.”
She produced a short quill with a thick end and used it to sketch
letters in red, which she then underlined, using the same marker, in
blue:

Transfiguration is not permanent!

“Transfiguration is not permanent!” said Professor McGonagall.
“Transfiguration is not permanent! Transfiguration is not permanent!
Mr Potter, suppose a student Transfigured a block of wood into a cup of
water, and you drank it. What do you imagine might happen to you when
the Transfiguration wore off?” There was a pause. “Excuse me, I should
not have asked that of you, Mr Potter, I forgot that you are blessed
with an unusually pessimistic imagination—”

“I’m fine,” Harry said, swallowing hard. “So the first answer is that I
don’t know,” the Professor nodded approvingly, “but I imagine there
might be… wood in my stomach, and in my bloodstream, and if any of that
water had been absorbed into my body’s tissues—would it be wood pulp or
solid wood or…” Harry’s grasp of magic failed him. He couldn’t
understand how wood mapped into water in the first place, so he couldn’t
understand what would happen after the water molecules were scrambled by
ordinary thermal motions and the magic wore off and the mapping
reversed.

McGonagall’s face was stiff. “As Mr Potter has correctly reasoned, he
would become extremely sick and require immediate Flooing to St. Mungo’s
Hospital if he was to have any chance of survival. Please turn your
textbooks to page 5.”

Even without any sound in the moving picture, you could tell that the
woman with horribly discoloured skin was screaming.

“The criminal who originally Transfigured gold into wine and gave it to
this woman to drink, ‘in payment of the debt’ as he put it, received a
sentence of ten years in Azkaban. Please turn to page 6. That is a
Dementor. They are the guardians of Azkaban. They suck away at your
magic, your life, and any happy thoughts you try to have. The picture on
page 7 is of the criminal ten years later, on his release. You will note
that he is dead—yes, Mr Potter?”

“Professor,” Harry said, “if the worst happens in a case like that, is
there any way of maintaining the Transfiguration?”

“No,” Professor McGonagall said flatly. “Sustaining a Transfiguration is
a constant drain on your magic which scales with the size of the target
form. And you would need to re-contact the target every few hours, which
is, in a case like this, impossible. Disasters like this are
unrecoverable!”

Professor McGonagall leaned forwards, her face very hard. “You will
absolutely never under any circumstances Transfigure anything into a
liquid or a gas. No water, no air. Nothing like water, nothing like air.
Even if it is not meant to drink. Liquid evaporates, little bits and
pieces of it get into the air. You will not Transfigure anything that is
to be burned. It will make smoke and someone could breathe that smoke!
You will never Transfigure anything that could conceivably go inside
anyone’s body by any means. No food. Nothing that looks like food. Not
even as a funny little prank where you mean to tell them about your mud
pie before they actually eat it. You will never do it. Period. Inside
this classroom or out of it or anywhere. Is that well understood by
every single student?”

“Yes,” said Harry, Hermione, and a few others. The rest seemed to be
speechless.

“Is that well understood by every single student?”

“Yes,” they said or muttered or whispered.

“If you break any of these rules you will not further study
Transfiguration during your stay at Hogwarts. Repeat along with me. I
will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas.”

“I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas,” said the
students in ragged chorus.

“Again! Louder! I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas.”

“I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas.”

“I will never Transfigure anything that looks like food or anything else
that goes inside a human body.”

“I will never Transfigure anything that is to be burned because it could
make smoke.”

“You will never Transfigure anything that looks like money, including
Muggle money,” said Professor McGonagall. “The goblins have ways of
finding out who did it. As a matter of recognised law, the goblin nation
is in a permanent state of war with all magical counterfeiters. They
will not send Aurors. They will send an army.”

“I will never Transfigure anything that looks like money,” repeated the
students.

“And above all,” said Professor McGonagall, “you will not Transfigure
any living subject, especially yourselves. It will make you very sick
and possibly dead, depending on how you Transfigure yourself and how
long you maintain the change.” Professor McGonagall paused. “Mr Potter
is currently holding up his hand because he has seen an Animagus
transformation—specifically, a human transforming into a cat and back
again. But an Animagus transformation is not free Transfiguration.”

Professor McGonagall took a small chunk of wood out of her pocket. With
a tap of her wand it became a glass ball. Then she said “Crystferrium!”
and the glass ball became a steel ball. She tapped it with her wand one
last time and the steel ball became a piece of wood once more.
“Crystferrium transforms a subject of solid glass into a similarly
shaped target of solid steel. It cannot do the reverse, nor can it
transform a desk into a pig. The most general form of
Transfiguration—free Transfiguration, which you will be learning here—is
capable of transforming any subject into any target, at least so far as
physical form is concerned. For this reason, free Transfiguration must
be done wordlessly. Using Charms would require different words for every
different transformation between subject and target.”

Professor McGonagall gave her students a sharp look. “Some teachers
begin with Transfiguration Charms and move on to free Transfiguration
afterwards. Yes, that would be much easier in the beginning. But it can
set you in a poor mould which impairs your abilities later. Here you
will learn free Transfiguration from the very start, which requires that
you cast the spell wordlessly, by holding the subject form, the target
form, and the transformation within your own mind.”

“And to answer Mr Potter’s question,” Professor McGonagall went on, “it
is free Transfiguration which you must never do to any living subject.
There are Charms and potions which can safely, reversibly transform
living subjects in limited ways. An Animagus with a missing limb will
still be missing that limb after transforming, for example. Free
Transfiguration is not safe. Your body will change while it is
Transfigured—breathing, for example, results in a constant loss of the
body’s stuff to the surrounding air. When the Transfiguration wears off
and your body tries to revert to its original form, it will not quite be
able to do so. If you press your wand to your body and imagine yourself
with golden hair, afterwards your hair will fall out. If you visualise
yourself as someone with clearer skin, you will be taking a long stay at
St. Mungo’s. And if you Transfigure yourself into an adult bodily form,
then, when the Transfiguration wears off, you will die.”

That explained why he had seen such things as fat boys, or girls less
than perfectly pretty. Or old people, for that matter. That wouldn’t
happen if you could just Transfigure yourself every morning… Harry
raised his hand and tried to signal Professor McGonagall with his eyes.

“Yes, Mr Potter?”

“Is it possible to Transfigure a living subject into a target that is
static, such as a coin—no, excuse me, I’m terribly sorry, let’s just say
a steel ball.”

Professor McGonagall shook her head. “Mr Potter, even inanimate objects
undergo small internal changes over time. There would be no visible
changes to your body afterwards, and for the first minute, you would
notice nothing wrong. But in an hour you would be sick, and in a day you
would be dead.”

“Erm, excuse me, so if I’d read the first chapter I could have guessed
that the desk was originally a desk and not a pig,” Harry said, “but
only if I made the further assumption that you didn’t want to kill the
pig, that might seem highly probable but—”

“I can foresee that marking your tests will be an endless source of
delight to me, Mr Potter. But if you have other questions can I please
ask you to wait until after class?”

“No further questions, professor.”

“Now repeat after me,” said Professor McGonagall. “I will never try to
Transfigure any living subject, especially myself, unless specifically
instructed to do so using a specialised Charm or potion.”

“If I am not sure whether a Transfiguration is safe, I will not try it
until I have asked Professor McGonagall or Professor Flitwick or
Professor Snape or the Headmaster, who are the only recognised
authorities on Transfiguration at Hogwarts. Asking another student is
not acceptable, even if they say that they remember asking the same
question.”

“Even if the current Defence Professor at Hogwarts tells me that a
Transfiguration is safe, and even if I see the Defence Professor do it
and nothing bad seems to happen, I will not try it myself.”

“I have the absolute right to refuse to perform any Transfiguration
about which I feel the slightest bit nervous. Since not even the
Headmaster of Hogwarts can order me to do otherwise, I certainly will
not accept any such order from the Defence Professor, even if the
Defence Professor threatens to deduct one hundred House points and have
me expelled.”

“If I break any of these rules I will not further study Transfiguration
during my time at Hogwarts.”

“We will repeat these rules at the start of every class for the first
month,” said Professor McGonagall. “And now, we will begin with matches
as subjects and needles as targets… put away your wands, thank you, by
‘begin’ I meant that you will begin taking notes.”

Half an hour before the end of class, Professor McGonagall handed out
the matches.

At the end of the class Hermione had a silvery-looking match and the
entire rest of the class, Muggle-born or otherwise, had exactly what
they’d started with.

Professor McGonagall awarded her another point for Ravenclaw.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the Transfiguration class was dismissed, Hermione came over to
Harry’s desk as Harry was putting away his books into his pouch.

“You know,” Hermione said with an innocent expression on her face, “I
earned two points for Ravenclaw today.”

“So you did,” Harry said shortly.

“But that wasn’t as good as your seven points,” she said. “I guess I’m
just not as intelligent as you.”

Harry finished feeding his homework into the pouch and turned to
Hermione with his eyes narrowed. He’d actually forgotten about that.

She batted her eyelashes at him. “We have lessons every day, though. I
wonder how long it will take you to find some more Hufflepuffs to
rescue? Today is Monday. So that gives you until Thursday.”

The two of them stared into each other’s eyes, unblinking.

Harry spoke first. “Of course you realise this means war.”

“I didn’t know we’d been at peace.”

All of the other students were now watching with fascinated eyes. All of
the other students, plus, unfortunately, Professor McGonagall.

“Oh, Mr Potter,” sang Professor McGonagall from the other side of the
room, “I have some good news for you. Madam Pomfrey has approved your
suggestion for preventing breakage in her Spimster wickets, and the plan
is to finish the job by the end of next week. I’d say that deserves…
let’s call it ten points for Ravenclaw.”

Hermione’s face was gaping in betrayal and shock. Harry imagined his own
face didn’t look much different.

“Professor…” Harry hissed.

“Those ten points are unquestionably deserved, Mr Potter. I would not
hand out House points on a whim. To you it might have been a simple
matter of seeing something fragile and suggesting a way to protect it,
but Spimster wickets are expensive, and the Headmaster was not pleased
the last time one broke.” Professor McGonagall looked thoughtful. “My, I
wonder if any other student has ever earned seventeen House points on
his first day of lessons. I’ll have to look it up, but I suspect that’s
a new record. Perhaps we should have an announcement at dinner time?”

“PROFESSOR!” Harry shrieked. “This is our war! Stop meddling!”

“Now you have until Thursday of next week, Mr Potter. Unless, of course,
you engage in some sort of mischief and lose House points before then.
Addressing a professor disrespectfully, for example.” Professor
McGonagall put a finger on her cheek and looked reflective. “I expect
you’ll hit negative numbers before the end of Friday.”

Harry’s mouth snapped shut. He sent his best Death Glare at McGonagall
but she only seemed to find it amusing.

“Yes, definitely an announcement at dinner,” Professor McGonagall mused.
“But it wouldn’t do to offend the Slytherins, so the announcement should
be brief. Just the number of points and the fact of the record… and if
anyone comes to you for help with their schoolwork and is disappointed
that you haven’t even started reading your textbooks, you can always
refer them to Miss Granger.”

“Professor!” said Hermione in a rather high-pitched voice.

Professor McGonagall ignored her. “My, I wonder how long it will take
before Miss Granger does something deserving of a dinner time
announcement? I look forward to seeing it, whatever it may be.”

Harry and Hermione, by unspoken mutual consent, turned and stormed out
of the classroom. They were followed by a trail of hypnotised
Ravenclaws.

“Um,” Harry said. “Are we still on for after dinner?”

“Of course,” said Hermione. “I wouldn’t want you to fall further behind
on your studying.”

“Why, thank you. And let me say that as brilliant as you are already, I
can’t help but wonder what you’ll be like once you have some elementary
training in rationality.”

“Is it really that useful? It didn’t seem to help you with Charms or
Transfiguration.”

There was a slight pause.

“Well, I only got my schoolbooks four days ago. That’s why I had to earn
those seventeen House points without using my wand.”

“Four days ago? Maybe you can’t read eight books in four days but you
might have at least read one. How many days will it take to finish at
that rate? You know all that mathematics, so can you tell me what’s
eight, times four, divided by zero?”

“I’ve got classes now, which you didn’t, but weekends are free, so…
limit of eight times four divided by epsilon as epsilon approaches zero
plus… 10:47 a.m. on Sunday.”

“I did it in three days actually.”

“2:47 p.m. on Saturday it is, then. I’m sure I’ll find the time
somewhere.”

And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.

16. Lateral Thinking

E. Y.: The enemy’s gate is Rowling.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’m not a psychopath, I’m just very creative.

AS soon as he walked into the Defence classroom on Wednesday, Harry knew
that this subject was going to be different.

It was, for a start, the largest classroom he had yet seen at Hogwarts,
akin to a university lecture hall, with layered tiers of desks facing a
gigantic flat stage of white marble. The classroom was high up in the
castle—on the fifth floor—and Harry knew that was as much explanation as
he’d get for where a room like this was supposed to fit. It was becoming
clear that Hogwarts simply did not have a geometry, Euclidean or
otherwise; it had connections, not directions.

Unlike a university hall, there weren’t rows of folding seats; instead
there were quite ordinary Hogwarts wooden desks and wooden chairs, lined
up in a curve across each level of the classroom. Except that each desk
had a flat, white, rectangular, mysterious object propped up on it.

In the centre of the gigantic platform, on a small raised dais of darker
marble, was a lone teacher’s desk. At which Quirrell sat slumped over in
his chair, head lolled back, drooling slightly over his robes.

Now what does that remind me of…?

Harry had arrived at the lesson so early that no other students were
there yet. (The English language was defective when it came to
describing time travel; in particular, English lacked any words capable
of expressing how convenient it was.) Quirrell didn’t seem to be…
functional… at the moment, and Harry didn’t particularly feel like
approaching Quirrell anyway.

Harry selected a desk, climbed up to it, sat down, and retrieved the
Defence textbook. He was around seven-eighths of the way through—he’d
planned on finishing the book before this lesson, actually, but he was
running behind schedule and had already used the Time-Turner twice
today.

Soon there were sounds as the classroom began to fill up. Harry ignored
them.

“Potter? What are you doing here?”

That voice didn’t belong here. Harry looked up. “Draco? What are you
doing in oh my god you have minions.”

One of the lads standing behind Draco seemed to have rather a lot of
muscle for an eleven-year-old, and the other was poised in a
suspiciously balanced-looking stance.

The white-blonde-haired boy smiled rather smugly and gestured behind
him. “Potter, I introduce to you Mr Crabbe,” his hand moved from Muscles
to Balance, “Mr Goyle. Vincent, Gregory, this is Harry Potter.”

Mr Goyle tilted his head and gave Harry a look that was probably
supposed to mean something but ended up just looking squinty. Mr Crabbe
said “Please to meetcha” in a tone that sounded like he was trying to
lower his voice as far as it could go.

A fleeting expression of consternation crossed Draco’s face, but was
quickly replaced by his superior grin.

“You have minions!” Harry repeated. “Where do I get minions?”

Draco’s smirk grew wider. “I’m afraid, Potter, that the first step is to
be Sorted into Slytherin—”

“What? That’s not fair!”

“—and then for your families to have an arrangement from before you were
born.”

Harry looked at Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle. They both seemed to be trying
very hard to loom. That is, they were leaning forwards, hunching over
their shoulders, sticking their necks out and staring at him.

“Um… hold on,” said Harry. “This was arranged years ago?”

“Exactly, Potter. I’m afraid you’re out of luck.”

Mr Goyle produced a toothpick and began cleaning his teeth, still
looming.

“And,” said Harry, “Lucius insisted that you were not to grow up knowing
your bodyguards, and that you were only to meet them on your first day
of school.”

That wiped the grin from Draco’s face. “Yes, Potter, we all know you’re
brilliant, the whole school knows by now, you can stop showing off—”

“So they’ve been told their whole lives that they’re going to be your
minions and they’ve spent years imagining what minions are supposed to
be like—”

Draco winced.

“—and what’s worse, they do know each other and they’ve been
practising—”

“The boss told ya to shut it,” rumbled Mr Crabbe. Mr Goyle bit down on
his toothpick, holding it between his teeth, and used one hand to crack
the knuckles on the other.

“I told you not to do this in front of Harry Potter!”

The two looked a bit sheepish and Mr Goyle quickly put the toothpick
back in a pocket of his robes.

But the moment Draco turned away from them to face Harry again, they
went back to looming.

“I apologise,” Draco said stiffly, “for the insult which these imbeciles
have offered you.”

Harry gave a meaningful look to Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle. “I’d say you’re
being a little harsh on them, Draco. I think they’re acting exactly the
way I’d want my minions to act. I mean, if I had any minions.”

Draco’s jaw dropped.

“Hey, Gregory, you don’ think he’s tryna lure us away from the boss, do
ya?”

“I’m sure Mr Potter wouldn’t be that foolish.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t dream of it,” Harry said smoothly. “It’s just something
to keep in mind if your current employer seems unappreciative. Besides,
it never hurts to have other offers while you’re negotiating your
working conditions, right?”

“What’s he doin’ in Ravenclaw?”

“I can’t imagine, Mr Crabbe.”

“Both of you shut up,” Draco said through gritted teeth. “That’s an
order.” With a visible effort, he transferred his attention to Harry
again. “Anyway, what’re you doing in the Slytherin Defence class?”

Harry frowned. “Hold on.” His hand went into his pouch. “Timetable.” He
looked over the parchment. “Defence, 2:30 p.m., and right now it’s…”
Harry looked at his mechanical watch, which read 11:23. “2:23, unless
I’ve lost track of time. Did I?” If he had, well, Harry knew how to get
to whatever lesson he was supposed to be at. God he loved his
Time-Turner and some day, when he was old enough, they would get
married.

“No, that sounds right,” Draco said, looking puzzled. His gaze turned to
look over the rest of the auditorium, which was filling with
green-trimmed robes and…

“Gryffindorks!” spat Draco. “What’re they doing here?”

“Hm,” Harry said. “Professor Quirrell did say… I forget his exact words…
that he would be ignoring some of the Hogwarts teaching conventions.
Maybe he just combined all his classes.”

“Huh,” said Draco. “You’re the first Ravenclaw in here.”

“Yup. Got here early.”

“What’re you doing all the way in the back row, then?”

Harry blinked. “I dunno, seemed like a good place to sit?”

Draco made a scoffing sound. “You couldn’t get any further away from the
teacher if you tried.” The blonde-haired boy leaned slightly closer.
“Anyway, is it true about what you said to Derrick and his crew?”

“Who’s Derrick?”

“You hit him with a pie?”

“Two pies, actually. What am I supposed to have said to him?”

“That he wasn’t doing anything cunning or ambitious and he was a
disgrace to Salazar Slytherin.” Draco was staring intently at Harry.

“That… sounds about right,” Harry said. “I think it was more like, ‘is
this some kind of incredibly clever plot that will gain you a future
advantage or is it really as much of a disgrace to the memory of Salazar
Slytherin as it looks like’ or something like that. I don’t remember the
exact words.”

“You’re confusing everyone, you know,” said the blonde-haired boy.

“Huh?” Harry said in honest confusion.

“Warrington said that spending a long time under the Sorting Hat is one
of the warning signs of a major Dark Wizard. Everyone was talking about
it, wondering if they should start sucking up to you just in case. Then
you went and protected a bunch of Hufflepuffs, for Merlin’s sake. Then
you told Derrick he’s a disgrace to Salazar Slytherin’s memory! What’s
anyone supposed to think?”

“That the Sorting Hat decided to put me in the House of ‘Slytherin! Just
kidding! Ravenclaw!’ and I’ve been acting accordingly.”

Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle both giggled, causing Mr Goyle to quickly clap a
hand to his mouth.

“We’d better go get our seats,” Draco said. He hesitated, straightened a
bit, spoke a bit more formally. “But I do want to continue our last
conversation and I accept your conditions.”

Harry nodded. “Would you mind terribly if I waited until Saturday
afternoon? I’m in a bit of a contest right now.”

“A contest?”

“See if I can read all my textbooks as fast as Hermione Granger did.”

“Granger,” Draco echoed. His eyes narrowed. “The mudblood who thinks
she’s Merlin? If you’re trying to show her up then all Slytherin wishes
you the very best luck, Potter, and I won’t bother you ’til Saturday.”
Draco inclined his head respectfully, and wandered off, tailed by his
minions.

Oh, this is going to be so much fun to juggle, I can already tell.

The classroom was filling up rapidly now with all four colours of trim:
green, red, yellow, and blue. Draco and his two friends seemed to be in
the midst of trying to acquire three contiguous front-row seats—already
occupied, of course. Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle were looming vigorously, but
it didn’t seem to be having much effect.

Harry bent over his Defence textbook and continued reading.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At 2:35 p.m., when most of the seats were taken and no-one else seemed
to be coming in, Professor Quirrell gave a sudden jerk in his chair and
sat up straight, and his face appeared on all the flat, white
rectangular objects that were propped up on the students’ desks.

Harry was taken by surprise, both by the sudden appearance of Professor
Quirrell’s face and by the resemblance to Muggle television. There was
something both nostalgic and sad about that, it seemed so much like a
piece of home and yet it wasn’t really…

“Good afternoon, my young apprentices,” said Professor Quirrell. His
voice seemed to come from the desk screen and to be speaking directly to
Harry. “Welcome to your first lesson in Battle Magic, as the founders of
Hogwarts would have put it; or, as it happens to be called in the late
twentieth century, Defence Against the Dark Arts.”

There was a certain amount of frantic scrabbling as students, taken by
surprise, reached for their parchment or notebooks.

“No,” Professor Quirrell said. “Don’t bother writing down what this
subject was once called. No such pointless question will count toward
your marks in any of my lessons. That is a promise.”

Many students sat straight up at that, looking rather shocked.

Professor Quirrell was smiling thinly. “Those of you who have wasted
time by reading your useless first-year Defence textbooks—”

Someone made a choking sound. Harry wondered if it was Hermione.

“—may have got the impression that although this subject is called
Defence Against the Dark Arts, it is actually about how to defend
against Nightmare Butterflies, which cause mildly bad dreams, or Acid
Slugs, which can dissolve all the way through a two-inch wooden beam
given most of a day.”

Professor Quirrell stood up, shoving his chair back from the desk. The
screen on Harry’s desk followed his every move. Professor Quirrell
strode towards the front of the classroom, and bellowed:

“The Hungarian Horntail is taller than a dozen men! It breathes fire so
quickly and so accurately that it can melt a Snitch in mid-flight! One
Killing Curse will bring it down!”

There were gasps from the students.

“The Mountain Troll is more dangerous than the Hungarian Horntail! It is
strong enough to bite through steel! Its hide is resistant enough to
withstand Stunning Hexes and Cutting Charms! Its sense of smell is so
acute that it can tell from afar whether its prey is part of a pack, or
alone and vulnerable! Most fearsome of all, the troll is unique among
magical creatures in continuously maintaining a form of Transfiguration
on itself—it is always transforming into its own body. If you somehow
succeed in ripping off its arm it will grow another within seconds! Fire
and acid will produce scar tissue which can temporarily confuse a
troll’s regenerative powers—for an hour or two! They are smart enough to
use clubs as tools! The mountain troll is the third most perfect killing
machine in all Nature! One Killing Curse will bring it down.”

The students were looking rather shocked.

Professor Quirrell was smiling rather grimly. “Your sad excuse for a
third-year Defence textbook will suggest to you that you expose the
mountain troll to sunlight, which will freeze it in place. This, my
young apprentices, is the sort of useless knowledge you will never find
in my lessons. You do not encounter mountain trolls in open daylight!
The idea that you should use sunlight to stop them is the result of
foolish textbook authors trying to show off their mastery of minutiæ at
the expense of practicality. Just because there is a ridiculously
obscure way of dealing with mountain trolls does not mean you should
actually try to use it! The Killing Curse is unblockable, unstoppable,
and works every single time on anything with a brain. If, as an adult
wizard, you find yourself incapable of using the Killing Curse, then you
can simply Apparate away! Likewise if you are facing the second most
perfect killing machine, a Dementor. You just Apparate away!”

“Unless, of course,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice now lower and
harder, “you are under the influence of an anti-Apparition jinx. No,
there is exactly one monster which can threaten you once you are fully
grown. The single most dangerous monster in all the world, so dangerous
that nothing else comes close. The Dark Wizard. That is the only thing
that will still be able to threaten you.”

Professor Quirrell’s lips were set in a thin line. “I will reluctantly
teach you enough trivia for a passing mark on the Ministry-mandated
portions of your first-year exams. Since your exact mark on these
sections will make no difference to your future life, anyone who wants
more than a passing mark is welcome to waste their own time studying our
pathetic excuse for a textbook. The title of this subject is not Defence
Against Minor Pests. You are here to learn how to defend yourselves
against the Dark Arts. Which means, let us be very clear on this,
defending yourselves against Dark Wizards. People with wands who want to
hurt you and who will likely succeed in doing so unless you hurt them
first! There is no defence without offence! There is no defence without
fighting! This reality is deemed too harsh for eleven-year-olds by the
fat, overpaid, Auror-guarded politicians who mandated your curriculum.
To the abyss with those fools! You are here for the subject that has
been taught at Hogwarts for eight hundred years! Welcome to your first
year of Battle Magic!”

Harry started applauding. He couldn’t help himself, it was too
inspiring.

Once Harry started clapping there was some scattered response from
Gryffindor, and more from Slytherin, but most students simply seemed too
stunned to react.

Professor Quirrell made a cutting gesture, and the applause died
instantly. “Thank you very much,” said Professor Quirrell. “Now to
practicalities. I have combined all my first-year Battle classes into
one, which allows me to offer you twice as much classroom time as
Doubles sessions—”

There were gasps of horror.

“—an increased load which I will make up to you by not assigning any
homework.”

The gasps of horror cut off abruptly.

“Yes, you heard me correctly. I will teach you to fight, not to write
twelve inches on fighting due Monday.”

Harry desperately wished he’d sat next to Hermione so he could see the
look on her face now, but on the other hand he was pretty sure he was
imagining it accurately.

Also Harry was in love. It would be a three-way wedding: him, the
Time-Turner, and Professor Quirrell.

“For those of you who so choose, I have arranged some after-school
activities that I think you will find quite interesting as well as
educational. Do you want to show the world your own abilities instead of
watching fourteen other people play Quidditch? More than seven people
can fight in an army.”

Hot damn.

“These and other after-school activities will also earn you Quirrell
points. What are Quirrell points, you ask? The House point system does
not suit my needs, because it makes House points too rare. I prefer to
let my students know how they are doing more frequently than that. And
on the rare occasions I offer you a written test, it will mark itself as
you go along, and if you get too many related questions wrong, your test
will show the names of students who got those questions right, and those
students will be able to earn Quirrell points by helping you.”

…wow. Why didn’t the other professors use a system like that?

“What good are Quirrell points, you wonder? For a start, ten Quirrell
points will be worth one House point. But they will earn you other
favours as well. Would you like to take your exam at an unusual time? Is
there a particular session you would very much prefer to skip? You will
find that I can be very flexible on behalf of students who have
accumulated enough Quirrell points. Quirrell points will control the
generalship of the armies. And for Christmas—just before the Christmas
break—I will grant someone a wish. Any school-related feat that lies
within my power, my influence, or above all, my ingenuity. Yes, I was in
Slytherin and I am offering to formulate a cunning plot on your behalf,
if that is what it takes to accomplish your desire. This wish will go to
whoever has earned the most Quirrell points within all seven years.”

That would be Harry.

“Now leave your books and loose items at your desks—they will be safe,
the screens will watch over them for you—and come down onto this
platform. It’s time to play a game called Who’s the Most Dangerous
Student in the Classroom.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry twisted his wand in his right hand and said “Ma-ha-su!”

There was another high-pitched “bing” from the floating blue sphere that
Professor Quirrell had assigned to Harry as his target. That particular
sound meant a perfect strike, which Harry had managed on nine out of his
last ten attempts.

Somewhere Professor Quirrell had dug up a spell that was incredibly easy
to pronounce, and had a ridiculously simple wand motion, and had a
tendency to hit wherever you were currently looking at. Professor
Quirrell had disdainfully proclaimed that real battle magic was far more
difficult than this. That the hex was entirely useless in actual combat.
That it was a barely ordered burst of magic whose only real content was
the aiming, and that it would produce, when it hit, a pain briefly
equivalent to being punched hard in the nose. That the sole purpose of
this test was to see who was a fast learner, since Professor Quirrell
was certain no-one would have previously encountered this hex or
anything like it.

Harry didn’t care about any of that.

“Ma-ha-su!”

A red bolt of energy shot out of his wand and struck the target and the
blue sphere once again made the bing which meant the spell had actually
worked for him.

Harry was feeling like a real wizard for the first time since he’d come
to Hogwarts. He wished the target would dodge like the little spheres
that Ben Kenobi had used for training Luke, but for some reason
Professor Quirrell had instead lined up all the students and targets in
neat orders which made sure they wouldn’t fire on each other.

So Harry lowered his wand, skipped to the right, snapped up his wand and
twisted and shouted “Ma-ha-su!”

There was a lower-pitched “dong” which meant he was almost on target.

Harry put his wand into his pocket, skipped back to the left and drew
and fired another red bolt of energy.

The high-pitched bing which resulted was easily one of the most
satisfying sounds he’d heard in his life. Harry wanted to scream in
triumph at the top of his lungs. I CAN DO MAGIC! FEAR ME, LAWS OF
PHYSICS, I’M COMING TO VIOLATE YOU!

“Ma-ha-su!” Harry’s voice was loud, but hardly noticeable over the
steady chant of similar cries from around the classroom platform.

“Enough,” said Professor Quirrell’s amplified voice. (It didn’t sound
loud. It sounded like normal volume, coming from just behind your left
shoulder, no matter where you were standing relative to Professor
Quirrell.) “I see that all of you have succeeded at least once now.” The
target-spheres turned red and began to drift up towards the ceiling.

Professor Quirrell was standing on the raised dais in the centre of the
platform, leaning slightly on his teacher’s desk with one hand.

“I told you,” Professor Quirrell said, “that we would play a game called
Who’s the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom. There is one student
in this classroom who mastered the Sumerian Simple Strike Hex faster
than anyone else—”

Oh blah blah blah.

“—and went on to help seven other students. For which she has earned the
first seven Quirrell points awarded to your year. Come forth, Hermione
Granger. It is time for the next stage of the game.”

Hermione Granger began striding forwards, a mixed look of triumph and
apprehension on her face. The Ravenclaws looked on proudly, the
Slytherins with glares, and Harry with frank annoyance. Harry had done
fine this time. He was probably even in the upper half of the class, now
that everyone had been faced with an equally unfamiliar spell and Harry
had read all the way through Adalbert Waffling’s Magical Theory. And yet
Hermione was still doing better.

Somewhere in the back of his mind was the fear that Hermione was simply
smarter than him.

But for now Harry was going to pin his hopes on the known facts that
(a) Hermione had read a lot more than the standard textbooks and
(b) Adalbert Waffling was an uninspired sod who’d written Magical Theory
to pander to a school board that didn’t think much of eleven-year-olds.

Hermione reached the central dais and stepped up.

“Hermione Granger mastered a completely unfamiliar spell in two minutes,
almost a full minute faster than the next runner-up.” Professor Quirrell
turned slowly in place to look at all the students watching them. “Could
Miss Granger’s intelligence make her the most dangerous student in the
classroom? Well? What do you think?”

No-one seemed to be thinking anything at the moment. Even Harry wasn’t
sure what to say.

“Let’s find out, shall we?” said Professor Quirrell. He turned back to
Hermione, and gestured toward the wider class. “Select any student you
like and cast the Simple Strike Hex on them.”

Hermione froze where she stood.

“Come now,” Professor Quirrell said smoothly. “You have cast this spell
perfectly over fifty times. It is not permanently harmful or even all
that painful. It hurts as much as a hard punch and lasts only a few
seconds.” Professor Quirrell’s voice grew harder. “This is a direct
order from your professor, Miss Granger. Choose a target and fire a
Simple Strike Hex.”

Hermione’s face was screwed up in horror and her wand was trembling in
her hand. Harry’s own fingers were clenching his own wand hard in
sympathy. Even though he could see what Professor Quirrell was trying to
do. Even though he could see the point Professor Quirrell was trying to
make.

“If you do not raise your wand and fire, Miss Granger, you will lose a
Quirrell point.”

Harry stared at Hermione, willing her to look in his direction. His
right hand was softly tapping his own chest. Pick me, I’m not afraid…

Hermione’s wand twitched in her hand; then her face relaxed, and she
lowered her wand to her side.

“No,” said Hermione Granger.

Her voice was calm, and even though it wasn’t loud, everyone heard it in
the silence.

“Then I must deduct one point from you,” said Professor Quirrell. “This
is a test, and you have failed it.”

That reached her. Harry could see it. But she kept her shoulders
straight.

Professor Quirrell’s voice was sympathetic and seemed to fill the whole
room. “Knowing things isn’t always enough, Miss Granger. If you cannot
give and receive violence on the order of stubbing your toe, then you
cannot defend yourself and you will not pass Defence. Please rejoin your
classmates.”

Hermione walked back towards the Ravenclaw cluster. Her face looked
peaceful and Harry, for some odd reason, wanted to start clapping. Even
though Professor Quirrell had been right.

“So,” Professor Quirrell said. “It becomes clear that Hermione Granger
is not the most dangerous student in the classroom. Who do you think
might actually be the most dangerous person here?—besides me, of
course.”

Without even thinking, Harry turned to look at the Slytherin contingent.

“Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy,” said Professor
Quirrell. “It seems that many of your fellow pupils are looking in your
direction. Come forth, if you would.”

Draco did so, walking with a certain pride in his bearing. He stepped
onto the dais and looked up at Professor Quirrell with a smile.

“Mr Malfoy,” Professor Quirrell said. “Fire.”

Harry would have tried to stop it if there’d been time but in one smooth
motion Draco spun on the Ravenclaw contingent and raised his wand and
said “Mahasu!” like it was all one syllable and Hermione was saying
“Ow!” and that was that.

“Well struck,” said Professor Quirrell. “Two Quirrell points to you. But
tell me, why did you target Miss Granger?”

There was a pause.

Finally Draco said, “Because she stood out the most.”

Professor Quirrell’s lips turned up in a thin smile. “And that is the
true reason why Draco Malfoy is dangerous. Had he selected any other,
that child would more likely resent being singled out, and Mr Malfoy
would more probably make an enemy. And while Mr Malfoy might have given
some other justification for selecting her, that would have served him
no purpose save to alienate some of you, while others are already
cheering him whether he says anything or not. Which is to say that
Mr Malfoy is dangerous because he knows who to strike and who not to
strike, how to make allies and avoid making enemies. Two more Quirrell
points to you, Mr Malfoy. And as you have demonstrated an exemplary
virtue of Slytherin, I think that Salazar’s House has earned a point as
well. You may rejoin your friends.”

Draco bowed slightly and walked back to the Slytherin contingent. Some
clapping started from the green-trimmed robes, but Professor Quirrell
made a cutting gesture and silence fell again.

“It might seem that our game is done,” said Professor Quirrell. “And yet
there is a single student in this classroom who is more dangerous than
the scion of Malfoy.”

And now for some reason there seemed to be an awful lot of people
looking at…

“Harry Potter. Come forth.”

This did not bode well.

Harry reluctantly walked towards where Professor Quirrell stood on his
raised dais, still leaning slightly against his teacher’s desk.

The nervousness of being put into the spotlight seemed to be sharpening
Harry’s wits as he approached the dais, and his mind was ruffling
through possibilities for what Professor Quirrell might think could
demonstrate Harry’s dangerousness. Would he be asked to cast a spell? To
defeat a Dark Lord?

Demonstrate his supposed immunity to the Killing Curse? Surely Professor
Quirrell was too smart for that…

Harry stopped well short of the dais, and Professor Quirrell didn’t ask
him to come any closer.

“The irony is,” said Professor Quirrell, “you all looked at the right
person for entirely the wrong reasons. You are thinking,” Professor
Quirrell’s lips twisted, “that Harry Potter has defeated the Dark Lord,
and so must be very dangerous. Bah. He was one year old. Whatever quirk
of fate killed the Dark Lord likely had little to do with Mr Potter’s
abilities as a fighter. But after I heard rumours of one Ravenclaw
facing down five older Slytherins, I interviewed several eyewitnesses
and came to the conclusion that Harry Potter would be my most dangerous
student.”

A jolt of adrenaline poured into Harry’s system, making him stand up
straighter. He didn’t know what conclusion Professor Quirrell had come
to, but that couldn’t be good.

“Ah, Professor Quirrell—” Harry started to say.

Professor Quirrell looked amused. “You’re thinking that I’ve come up
with a wrong answer, aren’t you, Mr Potter? You will learn to expect
better of me.” Professor Quirrell straightened from where he had leaned
on the desk. “Mr Potter, all things have their accustomed uses. Give me
ten unaccustomed uses of objects in this room for combat!”

For a moment Harry was rendered speechless by the sheer, raw shock of
having been understood.

And then the ideas started to pour out.

“There are desks which are heavy enough to be fatal if dropped from a
great height. There are chairs with metal legs that could impale someone
if driven hard enough. The air in this classroom would be deadly by its
absence, since people die in vacuum, and it can serve as a carrier for
poison gases.”

Harry had to stop briefly for breath, and into that pause Professor
Quirrell said:

“That’s three. You need ten. The rest of the class thinks that you’ve
already used up the whole contents of the classroom.”

“Ha! The floor can be removed to create a spike pit to fall into, the
ceiling can be collapsed on someone, the walls can serve as raw material
for Transfiguration into any number of deadly things—knives, say.”

“That’s six. But surely you’re scraping the bottom of the barrel now?”

“I haven’t even started! Just look at all the people! Having a
Gryffindor attack the enemy is an ordinary use, of course—”

“I will not count that one.”

“—but their blood can also be used to drown someone. Ravenclaws are
known for their brains, but their internal organs could be sold on the
black market for enough money to hire an assassin. Slytherins aren’t
just useful as assassins, they can also be thrown at sufficient velocity
to crush an enemy. And Hufflepuffs, in addition to being hard workers,
also contain bones that can be removed, sharpened, and used to stab
someone.”

By now the rest of the class was staring at Harry in some horror. Even
the Slytherins looked shocked.

“That’s ten, though I’m being generous in counting the Ravenclaw one.
Now, for extra credit, one Quirrell point for each use of objects in
this room which you have not yet named.” Professor Quirrell favoured
Harry with a companionable smile. “The rest of your class thinks you are
in trouble now, since you’ve named everything except the targets and you
have no idea what may be done with those.”

“Bah! I’ve named all the people, but not my robes, which can be used to
suffocate an enemy if wrapped around their head enough times, or
Hermione Granger’s robes, which can be torn into strips and tied into a
rope and used to hang someone, or Draco Malfoy’s robes, which can be
used to start a fire—”

“Three points,” said Professor Quirrell, “no more clothing now.”

“My wand can be pushed into an enemy’s brain through their eye socket”
and someone made a horrified, strangling sound.

“Four points, no more wands.”

“My wristwatch could suffocate someone if jammed down their throat—”

“Five points, and enough.”

“Hmph,” Harry said. “Ten Quirrell points to one House point, right? You
should have let me keep going until I’d won the House Cup, I haven’t
even started yet on the unaccustomed uses of everything I’ve got in my
pockets” or the mokeskin pouch itself and he couldn’t talk about the
Time-Turner or the invisibility cloak but there had to be something he
could say about those red spheres…

“Enough, Mr Potter. Well, do you all think you understand what makes
Mr Potter the most dangerous student in the classroom?”

There was a low murmur of assent.

“Say it out loud, please. Terry Boot, what makes your dorm-mate
dangerous?”

“Ah… um… he’s creative?”

“Wrong!” bellowed Professor Quirrell, and his fist came down sharply on
his desk with an amplified sound that made everyone jump. “All of
Mr Potter’s ideas were worse than useless!”

Harry started in surprise.

“Remove the floor to create a spike trap? Ridiculous! In combat you do
not have that sort of preparation time and if you did there would be a
hundred better uses! Transfigure material from the walls? Mr Potter
cannot perform Transfiguration! Mr Potter had exactly one idea which he
could use immediately, right now, without extensive preparation or a
cooperative enemy or magic he does not know. That idea was to jam his
wand through his enemy’s eye socket. Which would be more likely to break
his wand than kill his opponent! In short, Mr Potter, I’m afraid that
your proposals were uniformly awful.”

“What?” Harry said indignantly. “You asked for unusual ideas, not
practical ones! I was thinking outside the box! How would you use
something in this classroom to kill someone?”

Professor Quirrell’s expression was disapproving, but there were smile
crinkles around his eyes. “Mr Potter, I never said you were to kill.
There is a time and a place for taking your enemy alive, and inside a
Hogwarts classroom is usually one of those places. But to answer your
question, hit them on the neck with the edge of a chair.”

There was some laughter from the Slytherins, but they were laughing with
Harry, not at him.

Everyone else was looking rather horrified.

“But Mr Potter has now demonstrated why he is the most dangerous student
in the classroom. I asked for unaccustomed uses of items in this room
for combat. Mr Potter could have suggested using a desk to block a
curse, or using a chair to trip an oncoming enemy, or wrapping cloth
around his arm to create an improvised shield. Instead, every single use
that Mr Potter named was offensive rather than defensive, and either
fatal or potentially fatal.”

What? Wait, that couldn’t be true… Harry had a sudden sense of vertigo
as he tried to remember what exactly he’d suggested, surely there had to
be a counterexample…

“And that,” Professor Quirrell said, “is why Mr Potter’s ideas were so
strange and useless—because he had to reach far into the impractical in
order to meet his standard of killing the enemy. To him, any idea which
fell short of that was not worth considering. This reflects a quality
that we might call intent to kill. I have it. Harry Potter has it, which
is how he could stare down five older Slytherins. Draco Malfoy does not
have it, not yet. Mr Malfoy would hardly shrink from talk of ordinary
murder, but even he was shocked—yes you were Mr Malfoy, I was watching
your face—when Mr Potter described how to use his classmates’ bodies as
raw material. There are censors inside your mind which make you flinch
away from thoughts like that. Mr Potter thinks purely of killing the
enemy, he will grasp at any means to do so, he does not flinch, his
censors are off. Even though his youthful genius is so undisciplined and
impractical as to be useless, his intent to kill makes Harry Potter the
Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom. One final point to him—no, let
us make that a point to Ravenclaw—for this indispensable requisite of a
true fighting wizard.”

Harry’s mouth gaped open in speechless shock as he searched frantically
for something to say to this. That is so completely not what I am about!

But he could see that the other students were starting to believe it.
Harry’s mind was flipping through possible denials and not finding
anything that could stand up against the authoritative voice of
Professor Quirrell. The best Harry had come up with was “I’m not a
psychopath, I’m just very creative” and that sounded kind of ominous. He
needed to say something unexpected, something that would make people
stop and reconsider—

“And now,” Professor Quirrell said. “Mr Potter. Fire.”

Nothing happened, of course.

“Ah, well,” said Professor Quirrell. He sighed. “I suppose we must all
start somewhere. Mr Potter, select any student you please for a Simple
Strike Hex. You will do so before I dismiss your class for the day. If
you do not, I will begin deducting House points, and I will keep on
deducting them until you do.”

Harry carefully raised his wand. He had to do that much, or Professor
Quirrell might start deducting House points right away.

Slowly, as though on a roasting platter, Harry turned to face the
Slytherins.

And Harry’s eyes met Draco’s.

Draco Malfoy didn’t look the slightest bit afraid. The blonde-haired boy
wasn’t giving any visible sign of assent such as Harry had given
Hermione, but then he could hardly be expected to do so. The other
Slytherins would think that rather odd.

“Why the hesitation?” said Professor Quirrell. “Surely there’s only one
obvious choice.”

“Yes,” Harry said. “Only one obvious choice.”

Harry twisted the wand and said “Ma-ha-su!”

There was complete silence in the classroom.

Harry shook his left arm, trying to get rid of the lingering sting.

There was more silence.

Finally Professor Quirrell sighed. “Yes, quite ingenious, but there was
a lesson to be taught and you dodged it. One point from Ravenclaw for
showing off your own cleverness at the expense of the actual goal. Class
dismissed.”

And before anyone else could say anything, Harry sang out:

“Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!”

There was silence for a brief moment after that, a sound of people
thinking, and then the murmurs started and rapidly rose to a roar of
conversation.

Harry turned towards Professor Quirrell, the two of them needed to talk—

Quirrell had slumped over and was trudging back to his chair.

No. Not acceptable. They really needed to talk. Stuff the zombie act,
Professor Quirrell would probably wake up if Harry poked him a couple of
times. Harry started forward—

WRONG

DON’T

BAD IDEA

Harry swayed and stopped in his tracks, feeling dizzy.

And then a flock of Ravenclaws descended on him and the discussions
began.

17. Locating the Hypothesis

E. Y.: You have always been J. K. Rowling.

Historical note: In the Roman calendar, the “Ides” of a month referred
to the 15th day of March, May, July, and October, and to the 13th day of
all other months.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You start to see the pattern, hear the rhythm of the world.

THURSDAY.

If you wanted to be specific, 7:24 a.m. on Thursday morning.

Harry was sitting on his bed, a textbook lying limp in his motionless
hands.

Harry had just had an idea for a truly brilliant experimental test.

It would mean waiting an extra hour for breakfast, but that was why he
had cereal bars. No, this idea absolutely positively had to be tested
right away, immediately, now.

Harry set the textbook aside, leapt out of bed, raced around his bed,
yanked out the cavern level of his trunk, ran down the stairs, and
started moving boxes of books around. (He really needed to unpack and
get bookcases at some point but he was in the middle of his textbook
reading contest with Hermione and falling behind so he hadn’t had time.)

Harry found the book he wanted and raced back upstairs.

The other boys were getting ready to go down to breakfast in the Great
Hall and start the day.

“Excuse me can you do something for me?” said Harry. He was flipping
through the book’s index as he spoke, found the page with the first ten
thousand primes, flipped to that page, and thrust the book at Anthony
Goldstein. “Pick two three-digit numbers from this list. Don’t tell me
what they are. Just multiply them together and tell me the product. Oh,
and can you do the calculation twice to double-check? Please make really
sure you’ve got the right answer, I’m not sure what’s going to happen to
me or the universe if you make a multiplication error.”

It said a lot about what life in that dorm had been like over the past
few days that Anthony didn’t even bother saying anything like “Why’d you
suddenly flip out?” or “That seems really weird, what are your reasons
for asking?” or “What do you mean, you’re not sure what’s going to
happen to the universe?”

Anthony wordlessly accepted the book and took out a parchment and quill.
Harry spun around and shut his eyes, making sure not to see anything,
dancing back and forth and bouncing up and down with impatience. He got
a pad of paper and a mechanical pencil and got ready to write.

“Okay,” Anthony said, “One hundred and eighty-one thousand, four hundred
and twenty-nine.”

Harry wrote down 181,429. He repeated what he’d just written down, and
Anthony confirmed it.

Then Harry raced back down into the cavern level of his trunk, glanced
at his watch (the watch said 4:28 which meant 7:28) and then shut his
eyes.

Around thirty seconds later, Harry heard the sound of steps, followed by
the sound of the cavern level of the trunk sliding shut. (Harry wasn’t
worried about suffocating. An automatic Air-Freshening Charm was part of
what you got if you were willing to buy a really good trunk. Wasn’t
magic wonderful, it didn’t have to worry about electric bills.)

And when Harry opened his eyes, he saw just what he’d been hoping to
see, a folded piece of paper left on the floor, the gift of his future
self.

Call that piece of paper “Paper-2”.

Harry tore a piece of paper off his pad.

Call that “Paper-1”. It was, of course, the same piece of paper. You
could even see, if you looked closely, that the ragged edges matched.

Harry reviewed in his mind the algorithm that he would follow.

If Harry opened up Paper-2 and it was blank, then he would write
“101 × 101” down on Paper-1, fold it up, study for an hour, go back in
time, drop off Paper-1 (which would thereby become Paper-2), and head on
up out of the cavern level to join his dorm-mates for breakfast.

If Harry opened up Paper-2 and it had two numbers written on it, Harry
would multiply those numbers together.

If their product equalled 181,429, Harry would write down those two
numbers on Paper-1 and send Paper-1 back in time.

Otherwise Harry would add 2 to the number on the right and write down
the new pair of numbers on Paper-1. Unless that made the number on the
right greater than 997, in which case Harry would add 2 to the number on
the left and write down 101 on the right.

And if Paper-2 said 997×997, Harry would leave Paper-1 blank.

Which meant that the only possible stable time loop was the one in which
Paper-2 contained the two prime factors of 181,429.

If this worked, Harry could use it to recover any sort of answer that
was easy to check but hard to find. He wouldn’t have just shown that
P = NP once you had a Time-Turner, this trick was more general than
that. Harry could use it to find the combinations on combination locks,
or passwords of every sort. Maybe even find the entrance to Slytherin’s
Chamber of Secrets, if Harry could figure out some systematic way of
describing all the locations in Hogwarts. It would be an awesome cheat
even by Harry’s standards of cheating.

Harry took Paper-2 in his trembling hand, and unfolded it.

Paper-2 said in slightly shaky handwriting:

DO NOT MESS WITH TIME

Harry wrote down “DO NOT MESS WITH TIME” on Paper-1 in slightly shaky
handwriting, folded it neatly, and resolved not to do any more truly
brilliant experiments on Time until he was at least fifteen years old.

To the best of Harry’s knowledge, that had been the scariest
experimental result in the entire history of science.

It had been somewhat difficult for Harry to focus on reading his
textbook for the next hour.

That was how Harry’s Thursday started.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thursday.

If you wanted to be specific, 3:32 p.m. on Thursday afternoon.

Harry and all the other boys in the first year were outside on a grassy
field with Madam Hooch, standing next to the Hogwarts supply of
broomsticks. The girls would be learning to fly separately. Apparently,
for some reason, girls didn’t want to learn how to fly on broomsticks in
the presence of boys.

Harry had been a little wobbly all day long. He just couldn’t seem to
stop wondering how that particular stable time loop had been selected
out of what was, in retrospect, a rather large space of possibilities.

Also: seriously, broomsticks? He was going to fly on, basically, a line
segment? Wasn’t that pretty much the single most unstable shape you
could possibly find, short of attempting to hold on to a point marble?
Who’d selected that design for a flying device, out of all the
possibilities? Harry had been hoping that it was just a figure of
speech, but no, they were standing in front of what looked for all the
world like ordinary wooden kitchen broomsticks. Had someone just got
stuck on the idea of broomsticks and failed to consider anything else?
It had to be. There was no way that the optimal designs for cleaning
kitchens and flying would happen to coincide if you worked them out from
scratch.

It was a clear day with a bright-blue sky and a brilliant sun that was
just begging to get in your eyes and make it impossible to see, if you
were trying to fly around the sky. The ground was nice and dry, smelling
positively baked, and somehow felt very, very hard under Harry’s shoes.

Harry kept reminding himself that the lowest common denominator of
eleven-year-olds was expected to learn this and it couldn’t be that
hard.

“Stick out your right hand over the broom, or left hand if you’re
left-handed,” called Madam Hooch. “And say, UP!”

“UP!” everyone shouted.

The broomstick leapt eagerly into Harry’s hand.

Which put him at the head of the class, for once. Apparently saying
“UP!” was a lot more difficult than it looked, and most of the
broomsticks were rolling around on the ground or trying to inch away
from their would-be riders.

(Of course Harry would have bet money that Hermione had done at least as
well when it came her own turn to try, earlier in the day. There
couldn’t possibly be anything he could master on the first try which
would baffle Hermione, and if there was and it turned out to be
broomstick riding instead of anything intellectual, Harry would just
die.)

It took a while for everyone to get a broomstick in front of them. Madam
Hooch showed them how to mount and then walked around the field,
correcting grips and stances. Apparently even among the few children
who’d been allowed to fly at home, they hadn’t been taught to do it
correctly.

Madam Hooch surveyed the field of boys, and nodded. “Now, when I blow my
whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard.”

Harry swallowed hard, trying to quell the queasy feeling in his stomach.

“Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight back
down by leaning forwards slightly. On my whistle—three—two—”

One of the brooms shot skyward, accompanied by a young boy’s screams—of
horror, not delight. The boy was spinning at an awful rate as he
ascended, they only got glimpses of his white face—

As though in slow motion, Harry was leaping back off his own broomstick
and scrabbling for his wand, though he didn’t really know what he
planned to do with it, he’d had exactly two sessions of Charms and the
last one had been the Hover Charm but Harry had only been able to cast
the spell successfully one time out of three and he certainly couldn’t
levitate whole people—

If there is any hidden power in me, let it reveal itself now!

“Come back, boy!” shouted Madam Hooch (which had to be the most
unhelpful instruction imaginable for dealing with an out-of-control
broomstick, from a flying instructor, and a fully automatic section of
Harry’s brain added Madam Hooch to his tally of fools).

And the boy was thrown off the broomstick.

He seemed to move very slowly through the air, at first.

“Wingardium Leviosa!” screamed Harry.

The spell failed. He could feel it fail.

There was a thud and a distant cracking sound, and the boy lay face down
on the grass in a heap.

Harry sheathed his wand and raced forwards at full speed. He arrived at
the boy’s side at the same time as Madam Hooch, and Harry reached into
his pouch and tried to recall oh god what was the name never mind he’d
just try “Healer’s Pack!” and it popped up into his hand and—

“Broken wrist,” Madam Hooch said. “Calm down, boy, he just has a broken
wrist!”

There was a sort of mental lurch as Harry’s mind snapped out of Panic
Mode.

The Emergency Healing Pack Plus lay open in front of him, and there was
a syringe of liquid fire in Harry’s hand, which would have kept the
boy’s brain oxygenated if he’d managed to snap his neck.

“Ah…” Harry said in a rather wavering sort of voice. His heart was
pounding so loudly that he almost couldn’t hear himself panting for
breath. “Broken bone… right… Setting String?”

“That’s for emergencies only,” snapped Madam Hooch. “Put it away, he’s
fine.” She leaned over the boy, offering him a hand. “Come on, boy, it’s
all right, up you get!”

“You’re not seriously going to make him ride the broomstick again?”
Harry said in horror.

Madam Hooch sent Harry a glare. “Of course not!” She pulled the boy to
his feet using his good arm—Harry saw with a shock that it was Neville
Longbottom again, what was with him?—and she turned to all the watching
children. “None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospital
wing! You leave those brooms where they are or you’ll be out of Hogwarts
before you can say ‘Quidditch.’ Come on, dear.”

And Madam Hooch walked off with Neville, who was clutching his wrist and
trying to control his sniffles.

When they were out of earshot, one of the Slytherins started giggling.

That set off the others.

Harry turned and looked at them. It seemed like a good time to memorise
some faces.

And Harry saw that Draco was strolling towards him, accompanied by
Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle. Mr Crabbe wasn’t smiling. Mr Goyle decidedly
was. Draco himself was wearing a very controlled face that twitched
occasionally, from which Harry inferred that Draco thought it was
hilarious but saw no political advantage to be gained by laughing about
it now instead of in the Slytherin dungeons afterwards.

“Well, Potter,” Draco said in a low voice that didn’t carry, still with
that very controlled face that was twitching occasionally, “Just wanted
to say, when you take advantage of emergencies to demonstrate
leadership, you want to look like you’re in total control of the
situation, rather than, say, going into a complete panic.” Mr Goyle
giggled, and Draco shot him a quelling look. “But you probably scored a
few points anyway. You need any help stowing that healer’s kit?”

Harry turned to look at the Healing Pack, which got his own face turned
away from Draco. “I think I’m fine,” Harry said. He put the syringe back
in its place, redid the latches, and stood up.

Ernie Macmillan arrived just as Harry was feeding the pack back into his
mokeskin pouch.

“Thank you, Harry Potter, on behalf of Hufflepuff,” Ernie Macmillan said
formally. “It was a good try and a good thought.”

“A good thought indeed,” drawled Draco. “Why didn’t anyone in Hufflepuff
have their wands out? Maybe if you’d all helped instead of just Potter,
you could’ve caught him. I thought Hufflepuffs were supposed to stick
together?”

Ernie looked like he was torn between getting angry and wanting to die
of shame. “We didn’t think of it in time—”

“Ah,” said Draco, “didn’t think of it, I guess that’s why it’s better to
have one Ravenclaw as a friend than all of Hufflepuff.”

Oh, hell, how was Harry supposed to juggle this one… “You’re not
helping,” Harry said in a mild tone. Hoping Draco would interpret that
as you’re interfering with my plans, please shut up.

“Hey, what’s this?” said Mr Goyle. He stooped to the grass and picked up
something around the size of a large marble, a glass ball that seemed to
be filled with a swirling white mist.

Ernie blinked. “Neville’s Remembrall!”

“What’s a Remembrall?” asked Harry.

“It turns red if you’ve forgotten something,” Ernie said. “It doesn’t
tell you what you forgot, though. Give it here, please, and I’ll hand it
back to Neville later.” Ernie held out his hand.

A sudden grin flashed across Mr Goyle’s face and he spun around and
raced away.

Ernie stood still for a moment in surprise, and then shouted “Hey!” and
ran after Mr Goyle.

And Mr Goyle grabbed a broomstick, hopped on with one smooth motion and
took to the air.

Harry’s jaw dropped. Hadn’t Madam Hooch said that would get him
expelled?

“That idiot!” Draco hissed. He opened his mouth to shout—

“Hey!” shouted Ernie. “That’s Neville’s! Give it back!”

The Slytherins started cheering and hooting.

Draco’s mouth snapped shut. Harry caught the sudden look of indecision
on his face.

“Draco,” Harry said in a low tone, “if you don’t order that idiot back
on the ground, the teacher’s going to get back and—”

“Come and get it, Hufflepuffle!” shouted Mr Goyle, and a great cheer
went up from the Slytherins.

“I can’t!” whispered Draco. “Everyone in Slytherin would think I’m
weak!”

“And if Mr Goyle gets expelled,” hissed Harry, “your father is going to
think you’re a moron!”

Draco’s face twisted in agony.

At that moment—

“Hey, Slytherslime,” shouted Ernie, “didn’t anyone ever tell you that
Hufflepuffs stick together? Wands out, Hufflepuff!”

And there were suddenly a whole lot of wands pointed in Mr Goyle’s
direction.

Three seconds later—

“Wands out, Slytherin!” said around five different Slytherins.

And there were a whole lot of wands pointed in Hufflepuff’s direction.

Two seconds later—

“Wands out, Gryffindor!”

“Do something, Potter!” whispered Draco. “I can’t be the one to stop
this it has to be you! I’ll owe you a favour just think of something
aren’t you supposed to be brilliant?”

In around five and a half seconds, realised Harry, someone was going to
cast the Sumerian Simple Strike Hex and by the time it was over and the
teachers were done expelling people the only boys left in his year would
be Ravenclaws.

“WANDS OUT, RAVENCLAW!” shouted Michael Corner who was apparently
feeling left out of the disaster.

“GREGORY GOYLE!” screamed Harry. “I CHALLENGE YOU TO A CONTEST FOR
POSSESSION OF NEVILLE’S REMEMBRALL!”

There was a sudden pause.

“Oh, really?” said Draco in the loudest drawl Harry had ever heard.
“That sounds interesting. What sort of contest, Potter?”

Er…

“Contest” had been as far as Harry’s inspiration had got. What sort of
contest, he couldn’t say “chess” because Draco wouldn’t be able to
accept without it looking strange, he couldn’t say “arm-wrestling”
because Mr Goyle would crush him—

“How about this?” Harry said loudly. “Gregory Goyle and I stand apart
from each other, and no-one else is allowed to come near either of us.
We don’t use our wands and neither does anyone else. I don’t move from
where I’m standing, and neither does he. And if I can get my hands on
Neville’s Remembrall, then Gregory Goyle relinquishes all claim to that
Remembrall he’s holding and gives it to me.”

There was another pause as people’s looks of relief transmuted to
confusion.

“Hah, Potter!” said Draco loudly. “I’d like to see you do that! Mr Goyle
accepts!”

“It’s on!” said Harry.

“Potter, what?” whispered Draco, which he somehow did without moving his
lips.

Harry didn’t know how to answer without moving his.

People were putting their wands away, and Mr Goyle swooped gracefully to
the ground, looking rather confused. Some Hufflepuffs started over
towards Mr Goyle, but Harry shot them a desperately pleading look and
they backed off.

Harry walked toward Mr Goyle and stopped when he was a few paces away,
far enough apart that they couldn’t reach each other.

Slowly, deliberately, Harry sheathed his wand.

Everyone else backed away.

Harry swallowed. He knew in broad outline what he wanted to do, but it
had to be done in such a way that no-one understood what he’d done—

“All right,” Harry said loudly. “And now…” He took a deep breath and
raised one hand, fingers ready to snap. There were gasps from anyone
who’d heard about the pies, which was practically everyone. “I call upon
the insanity of Hogwarts! Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp!” And
Harry snapped his fingers.

A lot of people flinched.

And nothing happened.

Harry let the silence stretch on for a while, developing, until…

“Um,” someone said. “Is that it?”

Harry looked at the boy who’d spoken. “Look in front of you. You see
that patch of ground that looks barren, without any grass on it?”

“Um, yeah,” said the boy, a Gryffindor (Dean something?).

“Dig it up.”

Now Harry was getting a lot of strange looks.

“Er, why?” said Dean something.

“Just do it,” said Terry Boot in a weary voice. “No point asking why,
trust me on this one.”

Dean something knelt down and began to scoop away dirt.

After a minute or so, Dean stood up again. “There’s nothing there,” Dean
said.

Huh. Harry had been planning to go back in time and bury a treasure map
that would lead to another treasure map that would lead to Neville’s
Remembrall which he would put there after getting it back from Mr Goyle…

Then Harry realised there was a much simpler way which didn’t threaten
the secret of Time-Turners quite as much.

“Thanks, Dean!” Harry said loudly. “Ernie, would you look around on the
ground where Neville fell and see if you can find Neville’s Remembrall?”

People looked even more confused.

“Just do it,” said Terry Boot. “He’ll keep trying until something works,
and the scary thing is that—”

“Merlin!” gasped Ernie. He was holding up Neville’s Remembrall. “It’s
here! Right where he fell!”

“What?” cried Mr Goyle. He looked down and saw…

…that he was still holding Neville’s Remembrall.

There was a rather long pause.

“Er,” said Dean something, “that’s not possible, is it?”

“It’s a plot hole,” said Harry. “I made myself weird enough to distract
the universe for a moment and it forgot that Goyle had already picked up
the Remembrall.”

“No, wait, I mean, that’s totally not possible—”

“Excuse me, are we all standing around here waiting to go flying on
broomsticks? Yes we are. So shut up. Anyway, once I get my hands on
Neville’s Remembrall, the contest is over and Gregory Goyle has to
relinquish all claim to the Remembrall he’s holding and give it to me.
Those were the terms, remember?” Harry stretched out a hand and beckoned
Ernie. “Just roll it over here, since no-one’s supposed to get close to
me, okay?”

“Hold on!” shouted a Slytherin—Blaise Zabini, Harry wasn’t likely to
forget that name. “How do we know that’s Neville’s Remembrall? You
could’ve just dropped another Remembrall there—”

“The Slytherin is strong with this one,” Harry said, smiling. “But you
have my word that the one Ernie’s holding is Neville’s. No comment about
the one Gregory Goyle’s holding.”

Zabini spun to Draco. “Malfoy! You’re not just going to let him get away
with that—”

“Shut up, you,” rumbled Mr Crabbe, standing behind Draco. “Mr Malfoy
doesn’t need you to tell him what to do!”

Good minion.

“My bet was with Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy,”
Harry said. “Not with you, Zabini. I have done what Mr Malfoy said he’d
like to see me do, and as for the judgement of the bet, I leave that up
to Mr Malfoy.” Harry inclined his head towards Draco and raised his
eyebrows slightly. That ought to allow Draco to save enough face.

There was a pause.

“You promise that actually is Neville’s Remembrall?” Draco said.

“Yes,” Harry said. “That’s the one that’ll go back to Neville and it was
his originally. And the one Gregory Goyle’s holding goes to me.”

Draco nodded, looking decisive. “I won’t question the word of the Noble
House of Potter, then, no matter how strange that all was. And the Noble
and Most Ancient House of Malfoy keeps its word as well. Mr Goyle, give
that to Mr Potter—”

“Hey!” Zabini said. “He hasn’t won yet, he hasn’t got his hands on—”

“Catch, Harry!” said Ernie, and he tossed the Remembrall.

Harry easily snapped the Remembrall out of the air, he’d always had good
reflexes that way. “There,” said Harry, “I win…”

Harry trailed off. All conversation stopped.

The Remembrall was glowing bright red in his hand, blazing like a
miniature sun that cast shadows on the ground in broad daylight.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thursday.

If you wanted to be specific, 5:09 p.m. on Thursday afternoon, in
Professor McGonagall’s office, after flying classes. (With an extra hour
for Harry slipped in between.)

Professor McGonagall sitting on her stool. Harry in the hot seat in
front of her desk.

“Professor,” Harry said tightly, “Slytherin was pointing their wands at
Hufflepuff, Gryffindor was pointing their wands at Slytherin, some idiot
called wands out in Ravenclaw, and I had maybe five seconds to keep the
whole thing from blowing sky-high! It was all I could think of!”

Professor McGonagall’s face was pinched and angry. “You are not to use
the Time-Turner in that fashion, Mr Potter! Is the concept of secrecy
not something that you understand?”

“They don’t know how I did it! They just think I can do really weird
things by snapping my fingers! I’ve done other weird stuff that can’t be
done with Time-Turners even, and I’ll do more stuff like that, and this
case won’t even stand out! I had to do it, Professor!”

“You did not have to do it!” snapped Professor McGonagall. “All you
needed to do was get this anonymous Slytherin back on the ground and the
wands put away! You could have challenged him to a game of Exploding
Snap but no, you had to use the Time-Turner in a flagrant and
unnecessary manner!”

“It was all I could think of! I don’t even know what Exploding Snap is,
they wouldn’t have accepted a game of chess and if I’d picked
arm-wresting I would have lost!”

“Then you should have picked wrestling!”

Harry blinked. “But then I’d have lost—”

Harry stopped.

Professor McGonagall was looking very angry.

“I’m sorry, Professor McGonagall,” Harry said in a small voice. “I
honestly didn’t think of that, and you’re right, I should have, it would
have been brilliant if I had, but I just didn’t think of that at all…”

Harry’s voice trailed off. It was suddenly apparent to him that he’d had
a lot of other options. He could have asked Draco to suggest something,
he could have asked the crowd… his use of the Time-Turner had been
flagrant and unnecessary. There had been a giant space of possibilities,
why had he picked that one?

Because he’d seen a way to win. Win possession of an unimportant trinket
that the teachers would’ve taken back from Mr Goyle anyway.

Intent to win. That was what had got him.

“I’m sorry,” Harry said again. “For my pride and my stupidity.”

Professor McGonagall wiped a hand across her forehead. Some of her anger
seemed to dissipate. But her voice still came out very hard. “One more
display like that, Mr Potter, and you will be returning that
Time-Turner. Do I make myself very clear?”

“Yes,” Harry said. “I understand and I’m sorry.”

“Then, Mr Potter, you will be allowed to retain the Time-Turner for now.
And considering the size of the debacle you did, in fact, avert, I will
not deduct any points from Ravenclaw.”

Plus you couldn’t explain why you’d deducted the points. But Harry
wasn’t dumb enough to say that out loud.

“More importantly, why did the Remembrall go off like that?” Harry said.
“Does it mean I’ve been Obliviated?”

“That puzzles me as well,” Professor McGonagall said slowly. “If it were
that simple, I would think that the courts would use Remembralls, and
they do not. I shall look into it, Mr Potter.” She sighed. “You can go
now.”

Harry started to get up from his chair, then halted. “Um, sorry, I did
have something else I wanted to tell you—”

You could hardly see the flinch. “What is it, Mr Potter?”

“It’s about Professor Quirrell—”

“I’m sure, Mr Potter, that it is nothing of importance.” Professor
McGonagall spoke the words in a great rush. “Surely you heard the
Headmaster tell the students that you were not to bother us with any
unimportant complaints about the Defence Professor?”

Harry was rather confused. “But this could be important, yesterday I got
this sudden sense of doom when—”

“Mr Potter! I have a sense of doom as well! And my sense of doom is
suggesting that you must not finish that sentence!”

Harry’s mouth gaped open. Professor McGonagall had succeeded; Harry was
speechless.

“Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, “if you have discovered anything
that seems interesting about Professor Quirrell, please feel free not to
share it with me or anyone else. Now I think you’ve taken up enough of
my valuable time—”

“This isn’t like you!” Harry burst out. “I’m sorry but that just seems
unbelievably irresponsible! From what I’ve heard there’s some kind of
jinx on the Defence position, and if you already know something’s going
to go wrong, I’d think you’d all be on your toes—”

“Go wrong, Mr Potter? I certainly hope not.” Professor McGonagall’s face
was expressionless. “After Professor Blake was caught in a cupboard with
no fewer than three fifth-year Slytherins last February, and a year
before that, Professor Summers failed so completely as an educator that
her students thought a boggart was a kind of furniture, it would be
catastrophic if some problem with the extraordinarily competent
Professor Quirrell came to my attention now, and I dare say most of our
students would fail their Defence O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s.”

“I see,” Harry said slowly, taking it all in. “So in other words,
whatever’s wrong with Professor Quirrell, you desperately don’t want to
know about it until the end of the school year. And since it’s currently
September, he could assassinate the Prime Minister on live television
and get away with it so far as you’re concerned.”

Professor McGonagall gazed at him unblinkingly. “I am certain that I
could never be heard endorsing such a statement, Mr Potter. At Hogwarts
we strive to be proactive with respect to anything that threatens the
educational attainment of our students.”

Such as first-year Ravenclaws who can’t keep their mouths shut. “I
believe I understand you completely, Professor McGonagall.”

“Oh, I doubt that, Mr Potter. I doubt that very much.” Professor
McGonagall leaned forward, her face tightening again. “Since you and I
have already discussed matters far more sensitive than these, I shall
speak frankly. You, and you alone, have reported this mysterious sense
of doom. You, and you alone, are a chaos magnet the likes of which I
have never seen. After our little shopping trip to Diagon Alley, and
then the Sorting Hat, and then today’s little episode, I can well
foresee that I am fated to sit in the Headmaster’s office and hear some
hilarious tale about Professor Quirrell in which you and you alone play
a starring role, after which there will be no choice but to fire him. I
am already resigned to it, Mr Potter. And if this sad event takes place
any earlier than the Ides of May, I will string you up by the gates of
Hogwarts with your own intestines and pour fire beetles into your nose.
Now do you understand me completely?”

Harry nodded, his eyes very wide. Then, after a second, “What do I get
if I can make it happen on the last day of the school year?”

“Get out of my office!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thursday.

There must have been something about Thursdays in Hogwarts.

It was 5:32 p.m. on Thursday afternoon, and Harry was standing next to
Professor Flitwick, in front of the great stone gargoyle that guarded
the entrance to the Headmaster’s office.

No sooner had he made it back from Professor McGonagall’s office to the
Ravenclaw study rooms than one of the students told him to report to
Professor Flitwick’s office, and there Harry had learned that Dumbledore
wanted to speak to him.

Harry, feeling rather apprehensive, had asked Professor Flitwick if the
Headmaster had said what this was about.

Professor Flitwick had shrugged in a helpless sort of way.

Apparently Dumbledore had said that Harry was far too young to invoke
the words of power and madness.

Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp? Harry had thought but not said
aloud.

“Please don’t worry too much, Mr Potter,” squeaked Professor Flitwick
from somewhere around Harry’s shoulder level. (Harry was grateful for
Professor Flitwick’s gigantic puffy beard, it was hard getting used to a
Professor who was not only shorter than him but spoke in a
higher-pitched voice.) “Headmaster Dumbledore may seem a little odd, or
a lot odd, or even extremely odd, but he has never hurt a student in the
slightest, and I don’t believe he ever will.” Professor Flitwick gave
Harry an encouraging smile. “Just keep that in mind at all times and
you’ll be sure not to panic!”

This was not helping.

“Good luck!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, and leaned over to the
gargoyle and said something that Harry somehow failed to hear at all.
(Of course, the password wouldn’t be much good if you could hear someone
saying it.) And the stone gargoyle walked aside with a very natural and
ordinary movement that Harry found rather shocking, since the gargoyle
still looked like solid, immovable stone the whole time.

Behind the gargoyle was a set of slowly revolving spiral stairs. There
was something disturbingly hypnotic about it, and even more disturbing
was that revolving the spiral ought not to take you anywhere.

“Up you go!” squeaked Flitwick.

Harry rather nervously stepped onto the spiral, and found himself, for
some reason that his brain couldn’t seem to visualise at all, moving
upwards.

The gargoyle thudded back into place behind him, and the spiral stairs
kept turning and Harry kept being higher up, and after a rather dizzying
time, Harry found himself in front of an oak door with a brass griffin
knocker.

Harry reached out and turned the doorknob.

The door swung open.

And Harry saw the most interesting room he’d ever seen in his life.

There were tiny metal mechanisms that whirred or ticked or slowly
changed shape or emitted little puffs of smoke. There were dozens of
mysterious fluids in dozens of oddly shaped containers, all bubbling,
boiling, oozing, changing colour, or forming into interesting shapes
that vanished half a second after you saw them. There were things that
looked like clocks with many hands, inscribed with numbers or in
unrecognisable languages. There was a bracelet bearing a lenticular
crystal that sparkled with a thousand colours, and a bird perched atop a
golden platform, and a wooden cup filled with what looked like blood,
and a statue of a falcon encrusted in black enamel. The wall was all
hung with pictures of people sleeping, and the Sorting Hat was casually
poised on a hat rack that was also holding two umbrellas and three red
slippers for left feet.

In the midst of all the chaos was a clean black oaken desk. Before the
desk was an oaken stool. And behind the desk was a well-cushioned throne
containing Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, who was adorned with
a long silver beard, a hat like a squashed giant mushroom, and what
looked to Muggle eyes like three layers of bright pink pyjamas.

Dumbledore was smiling, and his bright eyes twinkled with a mad
intensity.

With some trepidation, Harry seated himself in front of the desk. The
door swung shut behind him with a loud thunk.

“Hello, Harry,” said Dumbledore.

“Hello, Headmaster,” Harry replied. So they were on a first-name basis?
Would Dumbledore now say to call him—

“Please, Harry!” said Dumbledore. “Headmaster sounds so formal. Just
call me Heh for short.”

“I’ll be sure to, Heh,” said Harry.

There was a slight pause.

“Do you know,” said Dumbledore, “you’re the first person who’s ever
taken me up on that?”

“Ah…” Harry said. He tried to control his voice despite the sudden
sinking feeling in his stomach. “I’m sorry, I, ah, Headmaster, you told
me to do it so I did—”

“Heh, please!” said Dumbledore cheerfully. “And there’s no call to be so
worried, I won’t launch you out a window just because you make one
mistake. I’ll give you plenty of warnings first, if you’re doing
something wrong! Besides, what matters isn’t how people talk to you,
it’s what they think of you.”

He’s never hurt a student, just keep remembering that and you’ll be sure
not to panic.

Dumbledore drew forth a small metal case and flipped it open, showing
some small yellow lumps. “Sherbet lemon?” said the Headmaster.

“Er, no thank you, Heh,” said Harry. Does slipping a student LSD count
as hurting them, or does that fall into the category of harmless fun?
“You, um, said something about my being too young to invoke the words of
power and madness?”

“That you most certainly are!” Dumbledore said. “Thankfully the Words of
Power and Madness were lost seven centuries ago and no-one has the
slightest idea what they are any more. It was just a little remark.”

“Ah…” Harry said. He was aware that his mouth was hanging open. “Why did
you call me here, then?”

“Why?” Dumbledore repeated. “Ah, Harry, if I went around all day asking
why I do things, I’d never have time to get a single thing done! I’m
quite a busy person, you know.”

Harry nodded, smiling. “Yes, it was a very impressive list. Headmaster
of Hogwarts, Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, and Supreme Mugwump of the
International Confederation of Wizards. Sorry to ask but I was
wondering, is it possible to get more than six hours if you use more
than one Time-Turner? Because it’s pretty impressive if you’re doing all
that on just thirty hours a day.”

There was another slight pause, during which Harry went on smiling. He
was a little apprehensive, actually a lot apprehensive, but once it had
become clear that Dumbledore was deliberately messing with him,
something within him absolutely refused to sit and take it like a
defenceless lump.

“I’m afraid Time doesn’t like being stretched out too much,” said
Dumbledore after the slight pause, “and yet we ourselves seem to be a
little too large for it, and so it’s a constant struggle to fit our
lives into Time.”

“Indeed,” Harry said with grave solemnity. “That’s why it’s best to come
to our points quickly.”

For a moment Harry wondered if he’d gone too far.

Then Dumbledore chuckled. “Straight to the point it shall be.” The
Headmaster leaned forwards, tilting his squashed mushroom hat and
brushing his beard against his desk. “Harry, this Monday you did
something that should have been impossible even with a Time-Turner. Or
rather, impossible with only a Time-Turner. Where did those two pies
come from, I wonder?”

A jolt of adrenaline shot through Harry. He’d done that using the Cloak
of Invisibility, the one that had been given him in a Christmas box
along with a note, and that note had said: If Dumbledore saw a chance to
possess one of the Deathly Hallows he would never let it escape his
grasp….

“A natural thought,” Dumbledore went on, “is that since none of the
first-years present were able to cast such a spell, someone else was
present, and yet unseen. And if no-one could see them, why, it would be
easy enough for them to throw the pies. One might further suspect that
since you had a Time-Turner, you were the invisible one; and that since
the spell of Disillusionment is far beyond your current abilities, you
had an invisibility cloak.” Dumbledore smiled conspiratorially. “Am I on
the right track so far, Harry?”

Harry was frozen. He had the feeling that an outright lie would not at
all be wise, and possibly not the least bit helpful, and he couldn’t
think of anything else to say.

Dumbledore waved a friendly hand. “Don’t worry, Harry, you haven’t done
anything wrong. Invisibility cloaks aren’t against the rules—I suppose
they’re rare enough that no-one ever got around to putting them on the
list. But really I was wondering something else entirely.”

“Oh?” Harry said in the most normal voice he could manage.

Dumbledore’s eyes shone with enthusiasm. “You see, Harry, after you’ve
been through a few adventures you tend to catch the hang of these
things. You start to see the pattern, hear the rhythm of the world. You
begin to harbour suspicions before the moment of revelation. You are the
Boy-Who-Lived, and somehow an invisibility cloak made its way into your
hands only four days after you discovered our magical Britain. Such
cloaks are not for sale in Diagon Alley, but there is one which might
find its own way to a destined wearer. And so I cannot help but wonder
if by some strange chance you have found not just an invisibility cloak,
but the Cloak of Invisibility, one of the three Deathly Hallows and
reputed to hide the wearer from the gaze of Death himself.” Dumbledore’s
gaze was bright and eager. “May I see it, Harry?”

Harry swallowed. There was a full flood of adrenaline in his system now
and it was entirely useless, this was the most powerful wizard in the
world and there was no way he could make it out the door and there was
nowhere in Hogwarts for him to hide if he did, he was about to lose the
Cloak that had been passed down through the Potters for who knew how
long—

Slowly Dumbledore leaned back into his high chair. The bright light had
gone out of his eyes, and he looked puzzled and a little sorrowful.
“Harry,” said Dumbledore, “if you don’t want to, you can just say no.”

“I can?” Harry croaked.

“Yes, Harry,” said Dumbledore. His voice sounded sad now, and worried.
“It seems that you’re afraid of me, Harry. May I ask what I’ve done to
earn your distrust?”

Harry swallowed. “Is there some way you can swear a binding magical oath
that you won’t take my cloak?”

Dumbledore shook his head slowly. “Unbreakable Vows are not to be used
so lightly. And besides, Harry, if you did not already know the spell,
you would have only my word that the spell was binding. Yet surely you
realise that I do not need your permission to see the Cloak. I am
powerful enough to draw it forth myself, mokeskin pouch or no.”
Dumbledore’s face was very grave. “But this I will not do. The Cloak is
yours, Harry. I will not seize it from you. Not even to look at for just
a moment, unless you decide to show it to me. That is a promise and an
oath. Should I need to prohibit you from using it on the school grounds,
I will require you to go to your vault at Gringotts and store it there.”

“Ah…” Harry said. He swallowed hard, trying to calm the flood of
adrenaline and think reasonably. He took the mokeskin pouch off his
belt. “If you really don’t need my permission… then you have it.” Harry
held out the pouch to Dumbledore, and bit down hard on his lip, sending
that signal to himself in case he was Obliviated afterwards.

The old wizard reached into the pouch, and without saying any word of
retrieval, drew forth the Cloak of Invisibility.

“Ah,” breathed Dumbledore. “I was right…” He poured the shimmering black
velvet mesh through his hand. “Centuries old, and still as perfect as
the day it was made. We have lost much of our art over the years, and
now I cannot make such a thing myself, no-one can. I can feel the power
of it like an echo in my mind, like a song forever being sung without
anyone to hear it…” The wizard looked up from the Cloak. “Do not sell
it,” he said, “do not give it to anyone as a possession. Think twice
before you show it to anyone, and ponder three times again before you
reveal it is a Deathly Hallow. Treat it with respect, for this is indeed
a Thing of Power.”

For a moment Dumbledore’s face grew wistful…

…and then he handed the Cloak back to Harry.

Harry put it back in his pouch.

Dumbledore’s face was grave once more. “May I ask again, Harry, how you
came to distrust me so?”

Suddenly Harry felt rather ashamed.

“There was a note with the Cloak,” Harry said in a small voice. “It said
that you would try to take the Cloak from me, if you knew. I don’t know
who left the note, though, I really don’t.”

“I… see,” Dumbledore said slowly. “Well, Harry, I won’t impugn the
motives of whoever left you that note. Who knows but that they
themselves may have had the best of good intentions? They did give you
the Cloak, after all.”

Harry nodded, impressed by Dumbledore’s charity, and abashed at the
sharp contrast with his own attitude.

The old wizard went on. “But you and I are both game pieces of the same
colour, I think. The boy who finally defeated Voldemort, and the old man
who held him off long enough for you to save the day. I will not hold
your caution against you, Harry, we must all do our best to be wise. I
will only ask that you think twice and ponder three times again, the
next time someone tells you to distrust me.”

“I’m sorry,” Harry said. He felt wretched at this point, he’d just told
off Gandalf essentially, and Dumbledore’s kindness was only making him
feel worse. “I shouldn’t have distrusted you.”

“Alas, Harry, in this world…” The old wizard shook his head. “I cannot
even say you were unwise. You did not know me. And in truth there are
some at Hogwarts who you would do well not to trust. Perhaps even some
you call friends.”

Harry swallowed. That sounded rather ominous. “Like who?”

Dumbledore stood up from his chair, and began examining one of his
instruments, a dial with eight hands of varying length.

After a few moments, the old wizard spoke again. “He probably seems to
you quite charming,” said Dumbledore. “Polite—to you at least.
Well-spoken, maybe even admiring. Always ready with a helping hand, a
favour, a word of advice—”

“Oh, Draco Malfoy!” Harry said, feeling rather relieved that it wasn’t
Hermione or something. “Oh no, no no no, you’ve got it all wrong, he’s
not turning me, I’m turning him.”

Dumbledore froze where he was peering at the dial. “You’re what?”

“I’m going to turn Draco Malfoy from the Dark Side,” Harry said. “You
know, make him a good guy.”

Dumbledore straightened and turned to Harry. He was wearing one of the
most astonished expressions Harry had ever seen on anyone, let alone
someone with a long silver beard. “Are you certain,” said the old wizard
after a moment, “that he is ready to be redeemed? I fear that whatever
goodness you think you see within him is only wishful thinking—or worse,
a lure, a bait—”

“Er, not likely,” Harry said. “I mean if he’s trying to disguise himself
as a good guy he’s incredibly bad at it. This isn’t a question of Draco
coming up to me and being all charming and me deciding that he must have
a hidden core of goodness deep down. I selected him for redemption
specifically because he’s the heir to House Malfoy and if you had to
pick one person to redeem, it would obviously be him.”

Dumbledore’s left eye twitched. “You intend to sow seeds of love and
kindness in Draco Malfoy’s heart because you expect Malfoy’s heir to
prove valuable to you?”

“Not just to me!” Harry said indignantly. “To all of magical Britain, if
this works out! And he’ll have a happier and mentally healthier life
himself! Look, I don’t have enough time to turn everyone away from the
Dark Side and I’ve got to ask where the Light can gain the most
advantage the fastest—”

Dumbledore started laughing. Laughing a lot harder than Harry would
expect, almost howling. It seemed positively undignified. An ancient and
powerful wizard ought to chuckle in deep booming tones, not laugh so
hard he was gasping for breath. Harry had once literally fallen out of
his chair while watching the Marx Brothers film Duck Soup, and that was
how hard Dumbledore was laughing now.

“It’s not that funny,” Harry said after a while. He was starting to
worry about Dumbledore’s sanity again.

Dumbledore got himself under control again with a visible effort. “Ah,
Harry, one symptom of the disease called wisdom is that you begin
laughing at things that no-one else thinks is funny, because when you’re
wise, Harry, you start getting the jokes!” The old wizard wiped tears
away from his eyes. “Ah, me. Ah, me. Oft evil will shall evil mar
indeed, in very deed.”

Harry’s brain took a moment to place the familiar words… “Hey, that’s a
Tolkien quote! Gandalf says that!”

“Théoden, actually,” said Dumbledore.

“You’re Muggle-born?” Harry said in shock.

“I’m afraid not,” said Dumbledore, smiling again. “I was born seventy
years before that book was published, dear child. But it seems that my
Muggle-born students tend to think alike in certain ways. I have
accumulated no fewer than twenty copies of The Lord of the Rings and
three sets of Tolkien’s entire collected works, and I treasure every one
of them.” Dumbledore drew his wand and held it up and struck a pose.
“You cannot pass! How does that look?”

“Ah,” Harry said in something approaching complete brain shutdown, “I
think you’re missing a Balrog.” And the pink pyjamas and squashed
mushroom hat were not helping in the slightest.

“I see.” Dumbledore sighed and glumly sheathed the wand in his belt. “I
fear there have been precious few Balrogs in my life of late. Nowadays
it’s all meetings of the Wizengamot where I must try desperately to
prevent any work from getting done, and formal dinners where foreign
politicians compete to see who can be the most obstinate fool. And being
mysterious at people, knowing things I have no way of knowing, making
cryptic statements which can only be understood in hindsight, and all
the other small ways in which powerful wizards amuse themselves after
they have left the part of the pattern that allows them to be heroes.
Speaking of which, Harry, I have a certain something to give you,
something which belonged to your father.”

“You do?” said Harry. “Gosh, who would have figured.”

“Yes indeed,” said Dumbledore. “I suppose it is a little predictable,
isn’t it?” His face turned solemn. “Nonetheless…”

Dumbledore went back to his desk and sat down, pulling out one of the
drawers as he did so. He reached in using both arms, and, straining
slightly, pulled a rather large and heavy-looking object out of the
drawer, which he then deposited on his oaken desk with a huge thunk.

“This,” Dumbledore said, “was your father’s rock.”

Harry stared at it. It was light grey, discoloured, irregularly shaped,
sharp-edged, and very much a plain old ordinary large rock. Dumbledore
had deposited it so that it rested on the widest available
cross-section, but it still wobbled unstably on his desk.

Harry looked up. “This is a joke, right?”

“It is not,” said Dumbledore, shaking his head and looking very serious.
“I took this from the ruins of James and Lily’s home in Godric’s Hollow,
where also I found you; and I have kept it from then until now, against
the day when I could give it to you.”

In the mixture of hypotheses that served as Harry’s model of the world,
Dumbledore’s insanity was rapidly rising in probability. But there was
still a substantial amount of probability allocated to other
alternatives… “Um, is it a magical rock?”

“Not so far as I know,” said Dumbledore. “But I advise you with the
greatest possible stringency to keep it close about your person at all
times.”

All right. Dumbledore was probably insane but if he wasn’t… well, it
would be just too embarrassing to get in trouble from ignoring the
advice of the inscrutable old wizard. That had to be like #4 on the list
of the Top 100 Obvious Failure Modes.

Harry stepped forward and put his hands on the rock, trying to find some
angle from which to lift it without cutting himself. “I’ll put it in my
pouch, then.”

Dumbledore frowned. “That may not be close enough to your person. And
what if your mokeskin pouch is lost, or stolen?”

“You think I should just carry a big rock everywhere I go?”

Dumbledore gave Harry a serious look. “That might prove wise.”

“Ah…” Harry said. It looked rather heavy. “I’d think the other students
would tend to ask me questions about that.”

“Tell them I ordered you to do it,” said Dumbledore. “No-one will
question that, since they all think I’m insane.” His face was still
perfectly serious.

“Er, to be honest if you go around ordering your students to carry large
rocks I can kind of see why people would think that.”

“Ah, Harry,” said Dumbledore. The old wizard gestured, a sweep of one
hand that seemed to take in all the mysterious instruments around the
room. “When we are young we believe that we know everything, and so we
believe that if we see no explanation for something, then no explanation
exists. When we are older we realise that the whole universe works by a
rhythm and a reason, even if we ourselves do not know it. It is only our
own ignorance which appears to us as insanity.”

“Reality is always lawful,” said Harry, “even if we don’t know the law.”

“Precisely, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “To understand this—and I see that
you do understand it—is the essence of wisdom.”

“So… why do I have to carry this rock exactly?”

“I can’t think of a reason, actually,” said Dumbledore.

“…you can’t.”

Dumbledore nodded. “But just because I can’t think of a reason doesn’t
mean there is no reason.”

The instruments ticked on.

“Okay,” said Harry, “I’m not even sure if I should be saying this, but
that is simply not the correct way to deal with our admitted ignorance
of how the universe works.”

“It isn’t?” said the old wizard, looking surprised and disappointed.

Harry had the feeling this conversation was not going to work out in his
favour, but he carried on regardless. “No. I don’t even know if that
fallacy has an official name, but if I had to make one up myself, it
would be ‘privileging the hypothesis’ or something like that. How can I
put this formally… um… suppose you had a million boxes, and only one of
the boxes contained a diamond. And you had a box full of
diamond-detectors, and each diamond-detector always went off in the
presence of a diamond, and went off half the time on boxes that didn’t
have a diamond. If you ran twenty detectors over all the boxes, you’d
have, on average, one false candidate and one true candidate left. And
then it would just take one or two more detectors before you were left
with the one true candidate. The point being that when there are lots of
possible answers, most of the evidence you need goes into just locating
the true hypothesis out of millions of possibilities—bringing it to your
attention in the first place. The amount of evidence you need to judge
between two or three plausible candidates is much smaller by comparison.
So if you just jump ahead without evidence and promote one particular
possibility to the focus of your attention, you’re skipping over most of
the work. Like, you live in a city where there are a million people, and
there’s a murder, and a detective says, well, we’ve got no evidence at
all, so have we considered the possibility that Mortimer Snodgrass did
it?”

“Did he?” said Dumbledore.

“No,” said Harry. “But later it turns out that the murderer had black
hair, and Mortimer has black hair, so everyone’s like, ah, looks like
Mortimer did it after all. So it’s unfair to Mortimer for the police to
promote him to their attention without having good reasons already in
hand to suspect him. When there are lots of possibilities, most of the
work goes into just locating the true answer—starting to pay attention
to it. You don’t need proof, or the sort of official evidence that
scientists or courts demand, but you need some sort of hint, and that
hint has to discriminate that particular possibility from the millions
of others. Otherwise you can’t just pluck the right answer out of thin
air. You can’t even pluck a possibility worth thinking about out of thin
air. And there’s got to be a million other things I could do besides
carrying around my father’s rock. Just because I’m ignorant about the
universe doesn’t mean that I’m unsure about how I should reason in the
presence of my uncertainty. The laws for thinking with probabilities are
no less iron than the laws that govern old-fashioned logic, and what you
just did is not allowed.” Harry paused. “Unless, of course, you have
some hint you’re not mentioning.”

“Ah,” said Dumbledore. He tapped his cheek, looking thoughtful. “An
interesting argument, certainly, but doesn’t it break down at the point
where you make an analogy between a million potential murderers only one
of whom committed the murder, and taking one out of many possible
courses of action, when many possible courses of action may all be wise?
I do not say that carrying your father’s rock is the one best possible
course of action, only that it is wiser to do than not.”

Dumbledore once again reached into the same desk drawer he had accessed
earlier, this time seeming to root around inside—at least his arm seemed
to be moving. “I will remark,” Dumbledore said while Harry was still
trying to sort out how to reply to this completely unexpected rejoinder,
“that it is a common misconception of Ravenclaws that all the smart
children are Sorted there, leaving none for other Houses. This is not
so; being Sorted to Ravenclaw indicates that you are driven by your
desire to know things, which is not at all the same quality as being
intelligent.” The wizard was smiling as he bent over the drawer.
“Nonetheless, you do seem rather intelligent. Less like an ordinary
young hero and more like a young mysterious ancient wizard. I think I
may have been taking the wrong approach with you, Harry, and that you
may be able to understand things that few others could grasp. So I shall
be daring, and offer you a certain other heirloom.”

“You don’t mean…” gasped Harry. “My father… owned another rock?”

“Excuse me,” said Dumbledore, “I am still older and more mysterious than
you and if there are any revelations to be made then I will do the
revealing, thank you… oh, where is that thing!” Dumbledore reached down
further into the desk drawer, and still further. His head and shoulders
and whole torso disappeared inside until only his hips and legs were
sticking out, as though the desk drawer was eating him.

Harry couldn’t help but wonder just how much stuff was in there and what
the complete inventory would look like.

Finally Dumbledore rose back up out of the drawer, holding the objective
of his search, which he set down on the desk alongside the rock.

It was a used, ragged-edged, textbook with a worn spine: Intermediate
Potion Making by Libatius Borage. There was a picture of a smoking vial
on the cover.

“This,” Dumbledore intoned, “was your mother’s fifth-year Potions
textbook.”

“Which I am to carry with me at all times,” said Harry.

“Which holds a terrible secret. A secret whose revelation could prove so
disastrous that I must ask you to swear—and I do require you to swear it
seriously, Harry, whatever you may think of all this—never to tell
anyone or anything else.”

Harry considered his mother’s fifth-year Potions textbook, which,
apparently, held a terrible secret.

The problem was that Harry did take that oaths like that very seriously.
Any vow was an Unbreakable Vow if made by the right sort of person.

And…

“I’m feeling thirsty,” Harry said, “and that is not at all a good sign.”

Dumbledore entirely failed to ask any questions about this cryptic
statement. “Do you swear, Harry?” said Dumbledore. His eyes gazed
intently into Harry’s. “Otherwise I cannot tell you.”

“Yes,” said Harry. “I swear.” That was the trouble with being a
Ravenclaw. You couldn’t refuse an offer like that or your curiosity
would eat you alive, and everyone else knew it.

“And I swear in turn,” said Dumbledore, “that what I am about to tell
you is the truth.”

Dumbledore opened the book, seemingly at random, and Harry leaned in to
see.

“Do you see these notes,” Dumbledore said in a voice so low it was
almost a whisper, “written in the margins of the book?”

Harry squinted slightly. The yellowing pages seemed to be describing
something called a potion of eagle’s splendour, many of the ingredients
being items that Harry didn’t recognise at all and whose names didn’t
appear to derive from English. Scrawled in the margin was a handwritten
annotation saying, I wonder what would happen if you used Thestral blood
here instead of blueberries? and immediately beneath was a reply in
different handwriting, You’d get sick for weeks and maybe die.

“I see them,” said Harry. “What about them?”

Dumbledore pointed to the second scrawl. “The ones in this handwriting,”
he said, still in that low voice, “were written by your mother. And the
ones in this handwriting,” moving his finger to indicate the first
scrawl, “were written by me. I would turn myself invisible and sneak
into her dorm while she was sleeping. Lily thought one of her friends
was writing them and they had the most amazing fights.”

That was the exact point at which Harry realised that the Headmaster of
Hogwarts was, in fact, crazy.

Dumbledore was looking at him with a serious expression. “Do you
understand the implications of what I have just told you, Harry?”

“Ehhh…” Harry said. His voice seemed to be stuck. “Sorry… I… not
really…”

“Ah well,” said Dumbledore, and sighed. “I suppose your cleverness has
limits after all, then. Shall we all just pretend I didn’t say
anything?”

Harry rose from his chair, wearing a fixed smile. “Of course,” Harry
said. “You know it’s actually getting rather late in the day and I’m a
bit hungry, so I should be going down to dinner, really” and Harry made
a beeline for the door.

The doorknob entirely failed to turn.

“You wound me, Harry,” said Dumbledore’s voice in quiet tones that were
coming from right behind him. “Do you not at least realise that what I
have told you is a sign of trust?”

Harry slowly turned around.

In front of him was a very powerful and very insane wizard with a long
silver beard, a hat like a squashed giant mushroom, and wearing what
looked to Muggle eyes like three layers of bright pink pyjamas.

Behind him was a door that didn’t seem to be working at the moment.

Dumbledore was looking rather saddened and weary, like he wanted to lean
on a wizard’s staff he didn’t have. “Really,” said Dumbledore, “you try
anything new instead of following the same pattern every time for a
hundred and ten years, and people all start running away.” The old
wizard shook his head in sorrow. “I’d hoped for better from you, Harry
Potter. I’d heard that your own friends also think you mad. I know they
are mistaken. Will you not believe the same of me?”

“Please open the door,” Harry said, his voice trembling. “If you ever
want me to trust you again, open the door.”

There was the sound behind him of a door opening.

“There were more things I planned to say to you,” Dumbledore said, “and
if you leave now, you will not know what they were.”

Sometimes Harry absolutely hated being a Ravenclaw.

He’s never hurt a student, said Harry’s Gryffindor side. Just keep
remembering that and you’ll be sure not to panic. You’re not going to
run away just because things are getting interesting, are you?

You can’t just walk out on the Headmaster! said the Hufflepuff part.
What if he starts deducting House points? He could make your school life
very difficult if he decides he doesn’t like you!

And a piece of himself which Harry didn’t much like but couldn’t quite
manage to silence was pondering the potential advantages of being one of
the few friends of this mad old wizard who also happened to be
Headmaster, Chief Warlock, and Supreme Mugwump. And unfortunately his
inner Slytherin seemed to be much better than Draco at turning people to
the Dark Side, because it was saying things like poor fellow, he looks
like he needs someone to talk to, doesn’t he? and you wouldn’t want such
a powerful man to end up trusting someone less virtuous, would you? and
I wonder what sort of incredible secrets Dumbledore could tell you if,
you know, you became friends with him and even I bet he’s got a reaallly
interesting book collection.

You’re all a bunch of lunatics, Harry thought at the entire assemblage,
but he’d been unanimously outvoted by every component part of himself.

Harry turned, took a step towards the open door, reached out, and
deliberately closed it again. It was a costless sacrifice given that he
was staying anyway, Dumbledore could control his movements regardless,
but maybe it would impress Dumbledore.

When Harry turned back around he saw that the powerful insane wizard was
once more smiling and looking friendly. That was good, maybe.

“Please don’t do that again,” Harry said. “I don’t like being trapped.”

“I am sorry about that, Harry,” said Dumbledore in what sounded like
tones of sincere apology. “But it would have been terribly unwise to let
you leave without your father’s rock.”

“Of course,” Harry said. “It wasn’t reasonable of me to expect the door
to open before I put the quest items in my inventory.”

Dumbledore smiled and nodded.

Harry went over to the desk, twisted his mokeskin pouch around to the
front of his belt, and, with some effort, managed to heave up the rock
in his eleven-year-old arms and feed it in.

He could actually feel the weight slowly diminishing as the Widening Lip
charm ate the rock, and the burp which followed was rather noisy and had
a distinctly complaining sound to it.

His mother’s fifth-year Potions textbook (which held a secret that was
in fact pretty terrible) followed shortly after.

And then Harry’s inner Slytherin made a sly suggestion for ingratiating
himself with the Headmaster, which, unfortunately, had been perfectly
pitched in such a way as to gain the support of the majority Ravenclaw
faction.

“So,” Harry said. “Um. As long as I’m hanging around, I don’t suppose
you would like to give me a bit of a tour of your office? I’m a bit
curious as to what some of these things are,” and that was his
understatement for the month of September.

Dumbledore gazed at him, and then nodded with a slight grin. “I’m
flattered by your interest,” said Dumbledore, “but I’m afraid there
isn’t much to say.” Dumbledore took a step closer to the wall and
pointed to a painting of a sleeping man. “These are portraits of past
Headmasters of Hogwarts.” He turned and pointed to his desk. “This is my
desk.” He pointed to his chair. “This is my chair—”

“Excuse me,” Harry said, “actually I was wondering about those.” Harry
pointed to a small cube that was softly whispering “blorple… blorple…
blorple”.

“Oh, the little fiddly things?” said Dumbledore. “They came with the
Headmaster’s office and I have absolutely no idea what most of them do.
Although this dial with the eight hands counts the number of, let’s call
them sneezes, by left-handed witches within the borders of France, you
would not believe how much work it took to nail that down. And this one
with the golden wibblers is my own invention and Minerva is never, ever
going to figure out what it’s doing.”

Dumbledore took a step over to the hat rack while Harry was still
processing this. “Here of course we have the Sorting Hat, I believe the
two of you have met. It told me that it was never again to be placed on
your head under any circumstances. You’re only the fourteenth student in
history it’s said that about, Baba Yaga was another one and I’ll tell
you about the other twelve when you’re older. This is an umbrella. This
is another umbrella.” Dumbledore took another few steps and turned
around, now smiling quite broadly. “And of course, most people who come
to my office want to see Fawkes.”

Dumbledore was standing next to the bird on the golden platform.

Harry came over, rather puzzled. “This is Fawkes?”

“Fawkes is a phœnix,” said Dumbledore. “Very rare, very powerful magical
creatures.”

“Ah…” Harry said. He lowered his head and stared into the tiny, beady
black eyes, which showed not the slightest sign of power or
intelligence.

“Ahhh…” Harry said again.

He was pretty sure he recognised the shape of the bird. It was pretty
hard to miss.

“Umm…”

Say something intelligent! Harry’s mind roared at itself. Don’t just
stand there sounding like a gibbering moron!

Well what the heck am I supposed to say? Harry’s mind fired back.

Anything!

You mean, anything besides “Fawkes is a chicken”—

Yes! Anything but that!

“So, ah, what sort of magic do phœnixes do, then?”

“Their tears have the power to heal,” Dumbledore said. “They are
creatures of fire, and move between all places as easily as fire may
extinguish itself in one place and be kindled in another. The tremendous
strain of their innate magic ages their bodies quickly, and yet they are
as close to undying as any creature that exists in this world, for
whenever their bodies fail them they immolate themselves in a burst of
fire and leave behind a hatchling, or sometimes an egg.” Dumbledore came
closer and inspected the chicken, frowning. “Hm… looking a little peaky
there, I’d say.”

By the time this statement registered fully in Harry’s mind, the chicken
was already on fire.

The chicken’s beak opened, but it didn’t have time for so much as a
single caw before it began to wither and char. The blaze was brief,
intense, and entirely self-contained; there was no smell of burning.

And then the fire died down only seconds after it had begun, leaving
behind a tiny, pathetic heap of ashes on the golden platform.

“Don’t look so horrified, Harry!” said Dumbledore. “Fawkes hasn’t been
hurt.” Dumbledore’s hand dipped into a pocket, and then the same hand
sifted through the ashes and turned up a small yellowish egg. “Look,
here’s an egg!”

“Oh… wow… amazing…”

“But now we really should get on with things,” Dumbledore said. Leaving
the egg behind in the ashes of the chicken, he returned to his throne
and seated himself. “It’s almost time for dinner, after all, and we
wouldn’t want to have to use our Time-Turners.”

There was a violent power struggle going on in the Government of Harry.
Slytherin and Hufflepuff had switched sides after seeing the Headmaster
of Hogwarts set fire to a chicken.

“Yes, things,” said Harry’s lips. “And then dinner.”

You’re sounding like a gibbering moron again observed Harry’s Internal
Critic.

“Well,” Dumbledore said. “I fear I have a confession to make, Harry. A
confession and an apology.”

“Apologies are good” that doesn’t even make sense! What am I talking
about?

The old wizard sighed deeply. “You may not still think so after
understanding what I have to say. I’m afraid, Harry, that I’ve been
manipulating you your entire life. It was I who consigned you to the
care of your wicked step-parents—”

“My step-parents aren’t wicked!” blurted Harry. “My parents, I mean!”

“They aren’t?” Dumbledore said, looking surprised and disappointed. “Not
even a little wicked? That doesn’t fit the pattern…”

Harry’s inner Slytherin screamed at the top of its mental lungs, SHUT UP
YOU IDIOT HE’LL TAKE YOU AWAY FROM THEM!

“No, no,” said Harry, lips frozen in a ghastly grimace, “I was just
trying to spare your feelings, they’re actually very wicked…”

“They are?” Dumbledore leaned forward, gazing at him intently. “What do
they do?”

Talk fast “they, ah, I have to do dishes and wash problems and they
don’t let me read a lot of books and—”

“Ah, good, that’s good to hear,” said Dumbledore, leaning back again. He
smiled in a sad sort of way. “I apologise for that, then. Now where was
I? Ah, yes. I’m sorry to say, Harry, that I am responsible for virtually
everything bad that has ever happened to you. I know that this will
probably make you very angry.”

“Yes, I’m very angry!” said Harry. “Grrr!”

Harry’s Internal Critic promptly awarded him the All-Time Award for the
Worst Acting in the History of Ever.

“And I just wanted you to know,” Dumbledore said, “I wanted to tell you
as early as possible, in case something happens to one of us later, that
I am truly, truly sorry. For everything that has already happened, and
everything that will.”

Moisture glistened in the old wizard’s eyes.

“And I’m very angry!” said Harry. “So angry that I want to leave right
now unless you’ve got anything else to say!”

Just go before he sets you on fire! shrieked Slytherin, Hufflepuff, and
Gryffindor.

“I understand,” said Dumbledore. “One last thing then, Harry. You are
not to attempt the forbidden door on the third-floor corridor. There’s
no possible way you could get through all the traps, and I wouldn’t want
to hear that you’d been hurt trying. Why, I doubt that you could so much
as open the first door, since it’s locked and you don’t know the spell
Alohomora—”

Harry spun around and bolted for the exit at top speed, the doorknob
turned agreeably in his hand and then he was racing down the spiral
stairs even as they turned, his feet almost stumbling over themselves,
in just a moment he was at the bottom and the gargoyle was walking aside
and Harry fired out of the stairwell like a cannonball.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry Potter.

There must have been something about Harry Potter.

It was Thursday for everyone, after all, and yet this sort of thing
didn’t seem to happen to anyone else.

It was 6:21 p.m. on Thursday afternoon when Harry Potter, firing out of
the stairwell like a cannonball and accelerating at top speed, ran
directly into Minerva McGonagall as she was turning a corner on her way
to the Headmaster’s office.

Thankfully neither of them were much hurt. As had been explained to
Harry a little earlier in the day—back when he was refusing to go
anywhere near a broomstick again—Quidditch needed solid iron Bludgers
just to stand a decent chance of injuring the players, since wizards
tended to be a lot more resistant than Muggles to impacts.

Harry and Professor McGonagall did both end up on the floor, and the
parchments she had been carrying went all over the corridor.

There was a terrible, terrible pause.

“Harry Potter,” breathed Professor McGonagall from where she was lying
on the floor right next to Harry. Her voice rose to nearly a shriek.
“What were you doing in the Headmaster’s office?”

“Nothing!” squeaked Harry.

“Were you talking about the Defence Professor?”

“No! Dumbledore called me up there and he gave me this big rock and said
it was my father’s and I should carry it everywhere!”

There was another terrible pause.

“I see,” said Professor McGonagall, her voice a little calmer. She stood
up, brushed herself off, and glared at the scattered parchments, which
jumped into a neat stack and scurried back against the corridor wall as
though to hide from her gaze. “My sympathies, Mr Potter, and I apologise
for doubting you.”

“Professor McGonagall,” Harry said. His voice was wavering. He pushed
himself off the floor, stood, and looked up at her trustworthy, sane
face. “Professor McGonagall…”

“Yes, Mr Potter?”

“Do you think I should?” Harry said in a small voice. “Carry my father’s
rock everywhere?”

Professor McGonagall sighed. “That is between you and the Headmaster,
I’m afraid.” She hesitated. “I will say that ignoring the Headmaster
completely is almost never wise. I am sorry to hear of your dilemma,
Mr Potter, and if there’s any way I can help you with whatever you
decide to do—”

“Um,” Harry said. “Actually I was thinking that once I know how, I could
Transfigure the rock into a ring and wear it on my finger. If you could
teach me how to sustain a Transfiguration—”

“It is good that you asked me first,” Professor McGonagall said, her
face growing a bit stern. “If you lost control of the Transfiguration
the reversal would cut off your finger and probably rip your hand in
half. And at your age, even a ring is too large a target for you to
sustain indefinitely without it being a serious drain on your magic. But
I can have a ring forged for you with a setting for a jewel, a small
jewel, in contact with your skin, and you can practise sustaining a safe
subject, like a marshmallow. When you have kept it up successfully, even
in your sleep, for a full month, I will allow you to Transfigure, ah,
your father’s rock…” Professor McGonagall’s voice trailed off. “Did the
Headmaster really—”

“Yes. Ah… um…”

Professor McGonagall sighed. “That’s a bit strange even for him.” She
stooped and picked up the stack of parchments. “I’m sorry about this,
Mr Potter. I apologise again for mistrusting you. But now it’s my own
turn to see the Headmaster.”

“Ah… good luck, I guess. Er…”

“Thank you, Mr Potter.”

“Um…”

Professor McGonagall walked over to the gargoyle, inaudibly spoke the
password, and stepped through into the revolving spiral stairs. She
began to rise out of sight, and the gargoyle started back—

“Professor McGonagall the Headmaster set fire to a chicken!”

“He wha—”

18. Dominance Hierarchies

E. Y.: Any sufficiently advanced J. K. Rowling is indistinguishable from
magic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That does sound like the sort of thing I would do, doesn’t it?

IT was breakfast time on Friday morning. Harry took another huge bite
out of his toast and then tried to remind his brain that scoffing his
breakfast wouldn’t actually get him into the dungeons any faster. Anyway
they had a full hour of study time between breakfast and the start of
Potions.

But dungeons! In Hogwarts! Harry’s imagination was already sketching the
chasms, narrow bridges, torch-lit sconces, and patches of glowing moss.
Would there be rats? Would there be dragons?

“Harry Potter,” said a quiet voice from behind him.

Harry looked over his shoulder and found himself beholding Ernie
Macmillan, smartly dressed in yellow-trimmed robes and looking a little
worried.

“Neville thought I should warn you,” Ernie said in a low voice. “I think
he’s right. Be careful of the Potions Master in our session today. The
older Hufflepuffs told us that Professor Snape can be really nasty to
people he doesn’t like, and he doesn’t like most people who aren’t
Slytherins. If you say anything smart to him it… it could be really bad
for you, from what I’ve heard. Just keep your head down and don’t give
him any reason to notice you.”

There was a pause as Harry processed this, and then he lifted his
eyebrows. (Harry wished he could raise just one eyebrow, like Spock, but
he’d never been able to manage.) “Thanks,” Harry said. “You might’ve
just saved me a lot of trouble.”

Ernie nodded, and turned to go back to the Hufflepuff table.

Harry resumed eating his toast.

It was around four bites afterwards that someone said “Pardon me,” and
Harry turned around to see an older Ravenclaw, looking a little worried—

Some time later, Harry was finishing up his third plate of rashers.
(He’d learned to eat heavily at breakfast. He could always eat lightly
at lunch if he didn’t end up using the Time-Turner.) And there was yet
another voice from behind him saying “Harry?”

“Yes,” Harry said wearily, “I’ll try not to draw Professor Snape’s
attention—”

“Oh, that’s hopeless,” said Fred.

“Completely hopeless,” said George.

“So we had the house elves bake you a cake,” said Fred.

“We’re going to put one candle on it for every point you lose for
Ravenclaw,” said George.

“And have a party for you at the Gryffindor table during lunch,” said
Fred.

“We hope that’ll cheer you up afterwards,” finished George.

Harry swallowed his last bite of rasher and turned around. “All right,”
said Harry. “I wasn’t going to ask this after Professor Binns, I really
wasn’t, but if Professor Snape is that awful why hasn’t he been fired?”

“Fired?” said Fred.

“You mean, let go?” said George.

“Yes,” Harry said. “It’s what you do to bad teachers. You fire them.
Then you hire a better teacher instead. You don’t have unions or tenure
here, right?”

Fred and George were frowning in much the same way that hunter-gatherer
tribal elders might frown if you tried to tell them about calculus.

“I don’t know,” said Fred after a while. “I never thought about that.”

“Me neither,” said George.

“Yeah,” said Harry, “I get that a lot. See you at lunch, guys, and don’t
blame me if there aren’t any candles on that cake.”

Fred and George both laughed, as if Harry had said something funny, and
bowed to him and headed back toward Gryffindor.

Harry turned back to the breakfast table and grabbed a cupcake. His
stomach already felt full, but he had a feeling this morning might use a
lot of calories.

As he ate his cupcake, Harry thought of the worst teacher he’d met so
far, Professor Binns of History. Professor Binns was a ghost. From what
Hermione had said about ghosts, it didn’t seem likely that they were
fully self-aware. There were no famous discoveries made by ghosts, or
much of any original work, no matter who they’d been in life. Ghosts
tended to have trouble remembering the current century. Hermione had
said they were like accidental portraits, impressed into the surrounding
matter by a burst of psychic energy accompanying a wizard’s sudden
death.

Harry had run into some stupid teachers during his abortive forays into
standard Muggle education—his father had been a lot pickier when it came
to selecting grad students as tutors, of course—but History class was
the first time he’d encountered a teacher who literally wasn’t sentient.

And it showed, too. Harry had given up after five minutes and started
reading a textbook. When it became clear that “Professor Binns” wasn’t
going to object, Harry had also reached into his pouch and withdrawn
earplugs.

Did ghosts not require a salary? Was that it? Or was it literally
impossible to fire anyone in Hogwarts even if they died?

Now it seemed that Professor Snape was going about being absolutely
awful to everyone who wasn’t a Slytherin and it hadn’t even occurred to
anyone to terminate his contract.

And the Headmaster had set fire to a chicken.

“Excuse me,” came a worried voice from behind him.

“I swear,” Harry said without turning around, “this place is almost
eight and a half percent as bad as what Dad says about Oxford.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry stamped down the stone corridors, looking affronted, annoyed, and
infuriated all at once.

“Dungeons!” Harry hissed. “Dungeons! These are not dungeons! This is a
basement! A basement!”

Some of the Ravenclaw girls gave him odd looks. The boys were all used
to him by now.

It seemed that the level in which the Potions classroom was located was
called the “dungeons” for no better reason than that it was below ground
and slightly colder than the main castle.

In Hogwarts! In Hogwarts! Harry had been waiting his whole life and now
he was still waiting and if there was anywhere on the face of the Earth
that had decent dungeons it ought to be Hogwarts! Was Harry going to
have to build his own castle if he wanted to see one little bottomless
abyss?

A short time later they got to the actual Potions classroom and Harry
cheered up considerably.

The Potions classroom had strange preserved creatures floating in huge
jars on shelves that covered every centimetre of wall space between the
cupboards. Harry was far enough along in his reading now that he could
actually identify some of the creatures, like the Zabriskan Fontema.
Albeit the fifty-centimetre spider looked like an Acromantula but it was
too small to be one. He’d tried asking Hermione, but she hadn’t seemed
very interested in looking anywhere near where he was pointing.

Harry was looking at a large dust ball with eyes and feet when the
assassin swept into the room.

That was the first thought that crossed Harry’s mind when he saw
Professor Severus Snape. There was something quiet and deadly about the
way the man stalked between the children’s desks. His robes were
unkempt, his hair spotted and greasy. There was something about him that
seemed reminiscent of Lucius, although the two of them looked nothing
remotely alike, and you got the impression that where Lucius would kill
you with flawless elegance, this man would simply kill you.

“Sit down,” said Professor Severus Snape. “Now.”

Harry and a few other children who had been standing around talking to
each other scrambled for desks. Harry had planned on ending up next to
Hermione but somehow he found himself sitting down in the nearest empty
desk next to Justin Finch-Fletchley (it was a Doubles session, Ravenclaw
and Hufflepuff) which put him two desks to the left of Hermione.

Severus seated himself behind the teacher’s desk, and without the
slightest transition or introduction, said, “Hannah Abbott.”

“Here,” said Hannah in a somewhat trembling voice.

“Susan Bones.”

“Present.”

And so it went, no-one daring to say a word in edgewise, until:

“Ah, yes. Harry Potter. Our new… celebrity.”

“The celebrity is present, sir.”

Half the class flinched, and some of the smarter ones suddenly looked
like they wanted to run out the door while the classroom was still
there.

Severus smiled in an anticipatory sort of way and called the next name
on his list.

Harry gave a mental sigh. That had happened way too fast for him to do
anything about it. Oh well. Clearly this man already didn’t like him,
for whatever reason. And when Harry thought about it, better by far that
this Potions professor should pick on him rather than, say, Neville or
Hermione. Harry was a lot better able to defend himself. Yep, probably
all for the best.

When full attendance had been taken, Severus swept his gaze over the
full class. His eyes were as empty as a night sky without stars.

“You are here,” Severus said in a quiet voice which the students at back
strained to hear, “to learn the subtle science and exact art of potion
making. As there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you will
hardly believe this is magic. I don’t expect you will really understand
the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes,
the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins,” this in a
rather caressing, gloating tone, “bewitching the mind, ensnaring the
senses,” this was just getting creepier and creepier. “I can teach you
how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death—if you aren’t as
great a pack of fools as I usually have to teach.”

Severus somehow seemed to notice the look of skepticism on Harry’s face,
or at least his eyes suddenly jumped to where Harry was sitting.

“Potter!” snapped the Potions professor. “What would I get if I added
powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?”

Harry blinked. “Was that in Magical Drafts and Potions?” he said. “I
just finished reading it, and I don’t remember anything which used
wormwood—”

Hermione’s hand went up and Harry shot her a glare which caused her to
raise her hand even higher.

“Tut, tut,” Severus said silkily. “Fame clearly isn’t everything.”

“Really?” Harry said. “But you just told us you’d teach us how to bottle
fame. Say, how does that work, exactly? You drink it and turn into a
celebrity?”

Three-quarters of the class flinched.

Hermione’s hand was dropping slowly back down. Well, that wasn’t
surprising. She might be his rival, but she wasn’t the sort of girl who
would play along after it became clear that the professor was
deliberately trying to humiliate him.

Harry was trying hard to keep control of his temper. The first rejoinder
that had crossed his mind was ‘Abracadabra’.

“Let’s try again,” said Severus. “Potter, where would you look if I told
you to find me a bezoar?”

“That’s not in the textbook either,” Harry said, “but in one Muggle book
I read that a trichinobezoar is a mass of solidified hair found in a
human stomach, and Muggles used to believe it would cure any poison—”

“Wrong,” Severus said. “A bezoar is found in the stomach of a goat, it
is not made of hair, and it will cure most poisons but not all.”

“I didn’t say it would, I said that was what I read in one Muggle book—”

“No-one here is interested in your pathetic Muggle books. Final try.
What is the difference, Potter, between monksblood and wolfsbane?”

That did it.

“You know,” Harry said icily, “in one of my quite fascinating Muggle
books, they describe a study in which people managed to make themselves
look very smart by asking questions about random facts that only they
knew. Apparently the onlookers only noticed that the askers knew and the
answerers didn’t, and failed to adjust for the unfairness of the
underlying game. So, Professor, can you tell me how many electrons are
in the outermost orbital of a carbon atom?”

Severus’s smile widened. “Four,” he said. “It is a useless fact which
no-one should bother writing down, however. And for your information,
Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is
known as the Draught of Living Death. As for monkshood and wolfsbane,
they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite, as you
would know if you had read One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi. Thought
you didn’t need to open the book before coming, eh, Potter? All the rest
of you should be copying that down so that you will not be as ignorant
as him.” Severus paused, looking quite pleased with himself. “And that
will be… five points? No, let us make it an even ten points from
Ravenclaw for backchat.”

Hermione gasped, along with a number of others.

“Professor Severus Snape,” Harry bit out. “I know of nothing which I
have done to earn your enmity. If there is some problem you have with me
which I do not know about, I suggest we—”

“Shut up, Potter. Ten more points from Ravenclaw. The rest of you, open
your books to page 3.”

There was only a slight, only a very faint burning sensation in the back
of Harry’s throat, and no moisture at all in his eyes. If crying was not
an effective strategy for destroying this Potions professor then there
was no point in crying.

Slowly, Harry sat up very straight. All his blood seemed to have been
drained away and replaced with liquid nitrogen. He knew he’d been trying
to keep his temper but he couldn’t seem to remember why.

“Harry,” whispered Hermione frantically from two desks over, “stop,
please, it’s all right, we won’t count it—”

“Talking in class, Granger? Three—”

“So,” said a voice colder than zero Kelvin, “how does one go about
filing a formal complaint against an abusive professor? Does one talk to
the Deputy Headmistress, write a letter to the Board of Governors… would
you care to explain how it works?”

The class was utterly frozen.

“Detention for one month, Potter,” Severus said, smiling even more
broadly.

“I decline to recognize your authority as a teacher and I will not serve
any detention you give.”

People stopped breathing.

Severus’s smile vanished. “Then you will be—” his voice stopped short.

“Expelled, were you about to say?” Harry, on the other hand, was now
smiling thinly. “But then you seemed to doubt your ability to carry out
the threat, or fear the consequences if you did. I, on the other hand,
neither doubt nor fear the prospect of finding a school with less
abusive professors. Or perhaps I should hire private tutors, as is my
accustomed practice, and be taught at my full learning speed. I have
enough money in my vault. Something about bounties on a Dark Lord I
defeated. But there are teachers at Hogwarts who I rather like, so I
think it will be easier if I find some way to get rid of you instead.”

“Get rid of me?” Severus said, now also smiling thinly. “What an amusing
conceit. How do you suppose you will do that, Potter?”

“I understand there have been a number of complaints about you from
students and their parents,” a guess but a safe one, “which leaves only
the question of why you’re not already gone. Is Hogwarts too financially
strapped to afford a real Potions professor? I could chip in, if so. I’m
sure they could find a better class of teacher if they offered double
your current salary.”

Two poles of ice radiated freezing winter across the classroom.

“You will find,” Severus said softly, “that the Board of Governors is
not the slightest bit sympathetic to your offer.”

“Lucius…” Harry said. “That’s why you’re still here. Perhaps I should
chat with Lucius about that. I believe he desires to meet with me. I
wonder if I have anything he wants?”

Hermione frantically shook her head. Harry noticed out of the corner of
his eye, but his attention was all on Severus.

“You are a very foolish boy,” Severus said. He wasn’t smiling at all,
now. “You have nothing that Lucius values more than my friendship. And
if you did, I have other allies.” His voice grew hard. “And I find it
increasingly unlikely that you were not Sorted into Slytherin. How was
it that you managed to stay out of my House? Ah, yes, because the
Sorting Hat claimed it was joking. For the first time in recorded
history. What were you really chatting about with the Sorting Hat,
Potter? Did you have something that it wanted?”

Harry stared into Severus’s cold gaze and remembered that the Sorting
Hat had warned him not to meet anyone’s eyes while thinking about—Harry
dropped his gaze to Severus’s desk.

“You seem oddly reluctant to look me in the eyes, Potter!”

A shock of sudden understanding—“So it was you the Sorting Hat was
warning me about!”

“What?” said Severus’s voice, sounding genuinely surprised, though of
course Harry didn’t look at his face.

Harry got up out of his desk.

“Sit down, Potter,” said an angry voice from somewhere he wasn’t
looking.

Harry ignored it, and looked around the classroom. “I have no intention
of letting one unprofessional teacher ruin my time at Hogwarts,” Harry
said with deadly calm. “I think I’ll take my leave of this class, and
either hire a tutor to teach me Potions while I’m here, or if the Board
is really that locked up, learn over the summer. If any of you decide
that you don’t care to be bullied by this man, my sessions will be open
to you.”

“Sit down, Potter!”

Harry strode across the room and grasped the doorknob.

It didn’t turn.

Harry slowly turned around, and caught a glimpse of Severus smiling
nastily before he remembered to look away.

“Open this door.”

“No,” said Severus.

“You are making me feel threatened,” said a voice so icy it didn’t sound
like Harry’s at all, “and that is a mistake.”

Severus’s voice laughed. “What do you intend to do about it, little
boy?”

Harry took six long strides forward away from the door, until he was
standing near the back row of desks.

Then Harry drew himself upright and raised his right hand in one
terrible motion, fingers poised to snap.

Neville screamed and dived under his desk. Other children shrank back or
instinctively raised their arms to shield themselves.

“Harry don’t!” shrieked Hermione. “Whatever you were going to do to him,
don’t do it!”

“Have you all gone mad?” barked Severus’s voice.

Slowly, Harry lowered his hand. “I wasn’t going to hurt him, Hermione,”
Harry said, his voice a little lower. “I was just going to blow up the
door.”

Though now that Harry remembered it, you weren’t supposed to Transfigure
things that were to be burned, which meant that going back in time
afterwards and getting Fred or George to Transfigure some carefully
measured amount of explosives might not actually have been such a good
idea…

“Silencio,” said Severus’s voice.

Harry tried to say “What?” and found that no sound was coming out.

“This has become ridiculous. I think you’ve been allowed to get yourself
in enough trouble for one day, Potter. You are the most disruptive and
unruly student I have ever seen, and I don’t recall how many points
Ravenclaw has right now, but I’m sure I can manage to wipe them all out.
Ten points from Ravenclaw. Ten points from Ravenclaw. Ten points from
Ravenclaw! Fifty points from Ravenclaw! Now sit down and watch the rest
of the class take their lesson!”

Harry put his hand into his pouch and tried to say ‘marker’ but of
course no words came out. For one brief moment that stopped him; and
then it occurred to Harry to spell out M-A-R-K-E-R using finger motions,
which worked. P-A-D and he had a pad of paper. Harry strode over to an
empty desk, not the one he’d originally sat down in, and scrawled a
brief message. He tore off that sheet of paper, put away the marker and
pad in a pocket of his robes for quicker access, and held up his
message, not to Snape, but to the rest of the class.

I’M LEAVING
DOES ANYONE ELSE
NEED TO GET OUT?

“You’re insane, Potter,” Severus said with cold contempt.

Aside from that, no-one spoke.

Harry swept an ironic bow to the teacher’s desk, walked over to the
wall, and with one smooth motion yanked open a cupboard door, stepped
in, and slammed the door shut behind him.

There was the muffled sound of someone snapping his fingers, and then
nothing.

In the classroom, students looked at each other in puzzlement and fear.

The Potions Master’s face was now completely enraged. He crossed the
room in terrible strides and yanked open the cupboard door.

The cupboard was empty.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One hour earlier, Harry listened from inside the closed cupboard. There
was no sound from outside, and no point in taking risks either.

C-L-O-A-K, his fingers spelled out.

Once he was invisible, he very carefully and slowly cracked open the
cupboard door and peeked out. No-one seemed to be in the classroom.

The door wasn’t locked.

It was when Harry was outside the dangerous place and inside the
hallway, safely invisible, that some of the anger drained away and he
realized what he’d just done.

What he’d just done.

Harry’s invisible face was frozen in absolute horror.

He’d antagonized a teacher three orders of magnitude beyond anything
he’d ever managed before. He’d threatened to walk out of Hogwarts and
might have to follow through on it. He’d lost all the points Ravenclaw
had and then he’d used the Time-Turner…

His imagination showed him his parents yelling at him after he was
expelled, Professor McGonagall disappointed in him, and it was just too
painful and he couldn’t bear it and he couldn’t think of any way to save
himself—

The thought that Harry allowed himself to think was that if getting
angry had landed him in all this trouble, then maybe when he was angry
he’d think of a way out, things seemed clearer somehow when he was
angry.

And the thought that Harry didn’t let himself think was that he just
couldn’t face this future if he wasn’t angry.

So he cast his thoughts back and remembered the burning humiliation…

Tut, tut. Fame clearly isn’t everything.

Ten points from Ravenclaw for backchat.

The calming cold washed back through his veins like a wave reflected and
returning from some breaker, and Harry let out his breath.

Okay. Back to being sane now.

He was actually feeling a bit disappointed in his non-angry self for
collapsing like that and wanting only to get out of trouble. Professor
Severus Snape was everyone’s problem. Normal-Harry had forgotten that
and wished for a way to protect himself. And let all the other victims
go hang? The question wasn’t how to protect himself, the question was
how to destroy this Potions professor.

So this is my dark side, is it? Bit of a prejudiced term that, my light
side seems more selfish and cowardly, not to mention confused and
panicky.

And now that he was thinking clearly, it was equally clear what to do
next. He’d already given himself an extra hour to prepare, and could get
up to five hours more if required…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva McGonagall waited in the Headmaster’s office.

Dumbledore sat in his padded throne behind his desk, dressed in four
layers of formal lavender robes. Minerva sat in a chair before him,
opposite Severus in another chair. Facing the three of them was an empty
wooden stool.

They were waiting for Harry Potter.

Harry, Minerva thought despairingly, you promised you wouldn’t bite any
teachers!

And in her mind she could see very clearly the reply, Harry’s angry face
and his outraged response: I said I wouldn’t bite anyone who didn’t bite
me first!

There was a knock at the door.

“Come in!” Dumbledore called.

The door swept open, and Harry Potter entered. Minerva almost gasped out
loud. The boy looked cool, collected, and utterly in control of himself.

“Good mor—” Harry’s voice suddenly cut off. His jaw dropped.

Minerva tracked Harry’s gaze, and she saw that Harry was staring at
Fawkes where the phœnix sat on its golden perch. Fawkes fluttered his
bright red-golden wings like the flickering of a flame, and dipped his
head in a measured nod to the boy.

Harry turned to stare at Dumbledore.

Dumbledore winked at him.

Minerva felt she was missing something.

Sudden uncertainty crossed Harry’s face. His coolness wavered. Fear
showed in his eyes, then anger, and then the boy was calm again.

A chill went down Minerva’s spine. Something was not right here.

“Please sit down,” said Dumbledore. His face was now serious once more.

Harry sat.

“So, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “I’ve heard one report of this day from
Professor Snape. Would you care to tell me what happened in your own
words?”

Harry’s gaze flicked dismissively to Severus. “It’s not complicated,”
said the boy, smiling thinly. “He tried bullying me the way he’s been
bullying every non-Slytherin in the school since the day Lucius foisted
him off on you. As for the other details, I request a private
conversation with you concerning them. A student who is reporting
abusive behaviour from a professor can hardly be expected to speak
frankly in front of that same professor, after all.”

This time Minerva couldn’t stop herself from gasping out loud.

Severus simply laughed.

And the Headmaster’s face grew grave. “Mr Potter,” the Headmaster said,
“one does not speak of a Hogwarts professor in such terms. I fear that
you labour under a terrible misapprehension. Professor Severus Snape has
my fullest confidence, and serves Hogwarts at my own behest, not Lucius
Malfoy’s.”

There was silence for a few moments.

When the boy spoke again his voice was icy. “Am I missing something
here?”

“Quite a number of things, Mr Potter,” said the Headmaster. “You should
understand, to start with, that the purpose of this meeting is to
discuss how to discipline you for the events of this morning.”

“This man has terrorized your school for years. I spoke to students and
collected stories to make sure there would be enough for a newspaper
campaign to rally the parents against him. Some of the younger students
cried while they told me. I almost cried when I heard them! You allowed
this abuser to run free? You did this to your students? Why?”

Minerva swallowed a lump in her throat. She’d—thought that, sometimes,
but somehow she’d never quite—

“Mr Potter,” said the Headmaster, his voice now stern, “this meeting is
not about Professor Snape. It is about you and your disregard for school
discipline. Professor Snape has suggested, and I have agreed, that three
full months of detention will be appropriate—”

“Declined,” Harry said icily.

Minerva was speechless.

“This is not a request, Mr Potter,” the Headmaster said. The full,
entire force of the wizard’s gaze was turned on the boy. “This is your
punishme—”

“You will explain to me why you allowed this man to hurt the children
placed in your care, and if your explanation is not sufficient then I
will begin my newspaper campaign with you as the target.”

Minerva’s body swayed with the force of that blow, with the sheer raw
lèse majesté.

Even Severus looked shocked.

“That, Harry, would be most extremely unwise,” Dumbledore said slowly.
“I am the primary piece opposing Lucius on the game board. For you to do
such a thing would strengthen him greatly, and I did not think that was
your chosen side.”

The boy was still for a long moment.

“This conversation grows private,” Harry said. His hand flicked in
Severus’s direction. “Send him away.”

Dumbledore shook his head. “Harry, did I not tell you that Severus Snape
has my fullest confidence?”

The boy’s face showed the shock of it. “This man’s bullying makes you
vulnerable! I am not the only one who could start a newspaper campaign
against you! This is insane! Why are you doing this?”

Dumbledore sighed. “I’m sorry, Harry. It has to do with things that you
are not, at this time, ready to hear.”

The boy stared at Dumbledore. Then he turned to look at Severus. Then
back to Dumbledore again.

“It is insanity,” the boy said slowly. “You haven’t reined him in
because you think he’s part of the pattern. That Hogwarts needs an evil
Potions Master to be a proper magical school, just as it needs a ghost
to teach History.”

“That does sound like the sort of thing I would do, doesn’t it?” said
Dumbledore, smiling.

“Unacceptable,” Harry said flatly. His gaze was now cold and dark. “I
will not tolerate bullying or abuse. I had considered many possible ways
of dealing with this problem, but I will make it simple. Either this man
goes, or I do.”

Minerva gasped again. Something strange flickered in Severus’s eyes.

Now Dumbledore’s gaze was also growing cold. “Expulsion, Mr Potter, is
the final threat which may be used against a student. It is not
customarily used as a threat by students against the Headmaster. This is
the best magical school in the entire world, and an education here is
not an opportunity given to everyone. Are you under the impression that
Hogwarts cannot get along without you?”

And Harry sat there, smiling thinly.

Sudden horror dawned on Minerva. Surely Harry wouldn’t—

“You forget,” Harry said, “that you’re not the only one who can see
patterns. This grows private. Now send him—” Harry flicked a hand at
Severus again, and then stopped in mid-sentence and mid-gesture.

Minerva could see it on Harry’s face, the moment when he remembered.

She’d told him, after all.

“Mr Potter,” said the Headmaster, “once again, Severus Snape has my
fullest confidence.”

“You told him,” whispered the boy. “You utter fool.”

Dumbledore didn’t react to the insult. “Told him what?”

“That the Dark Lord is alive.”

“What in Merlin’s name are you on about, Potter?” cried Severus in tones
of sheer astonishment and outrage.

Harry glanced briefly at him, smiling grimly. “Oh, so we are a
Slytherin, then,” Harry said. “I was starting to wonder.”

And then there was silence.

Finally Dumbledore spoke. His voice was mild. “Harry, what are you
talking about?”

“I’m sorry, Albus,” Minerva whispered.

Severus and Dumbledore turned to look at her.

“Professor McGonagall didn’t tell me,” said Harry’s voice, swiftly and
less calm than it had been. “I guessed. I told you, I can see the
patterns too. I guessed, and she controlled her reaction just as Severus
did. But her control fell a shade short of perfection, and I could tell
it was control, not genuine.”

“And I told him,” said Minerva, her voice trembling a little, “that you,
and I, and Severus were the only ones who knew.”

“Which she did as a concession to prevent me from simply going around
asking questions, as I threatened to do if she didn’t talk,” Harry said.
The boy chuckled briefly. “I really should have got one of you alone and
told you that she told me everything, to see if you let anything slip.
Probably wouldn’t have worked, but would have been worth a shot.” The
boy smiled again. “Threat’s still on the table and I do expect to be
briefed fully at some point.”

Severus was giving her a look of utter contempt. Minerva raised her chin
and bore it. She knew it was deserved.

Dumbledore leaned back in his padded throne. His eyes were as cold as
anything Minerva had seen from him since the day his brother died. “And
you threaten to abandon us to Voldemort if we do not comply with your
wishes.”

Harry’s voice was razor-sharp. “I regret to inform you that you are not
the centre of the universe. I’m not threatening to walk out on magical
Britain. I’m threatening to walk out on you. I am not a meek little
Frodo. This is my quest and if you want in you will play by my rules.”

Dumbledore’s face was still cold. “I am beginning to doubt your
suitability as the hero, Mr Potter.”

Harry’s return gaze was equally icy. “I am beginning to doubt your
suitability as my Gandalf, Mr Dumbledore. Boromir was at least a
plausible mistake. What is this Nazgûl doing in my Fellowship?”

Minerva was completely lost. She looked at Severus, to see if he was
following this, and she saw that Severus had turned his face away from
Harry’s field of vision and was smiling.

“I suppose,” Dumbledore said slowly, “that from your perspective it is a
reasonable question. So, Mr Potter, if Professor Snape is to leave you
alone henceforth, will that be the last time this issue arises, or will
I find you here every week with a new demand?”

“Leave me alone?” Harry’s voice was outraged. “I am not his only victim
and certainly not the most vulnerable! Have you forgotten how
defenceless children are? How much they hurt? Henceforth Severus will
treat every student of Hogwarts with appropriate and professional
courtesy, or you will find another Potions Master, or you will find
another hero!”

Dumbledore started laughing. Full-throated, warm, humorous laughter, as
if Harry had just performed a comic dance in front of him.

Minerva didn’t dare move. Her eyes flickered and she saw that Severus
was equally motionless.

Harry’s visage grew even colder. “You mistake me, Headmaster, if you
think that this is a joke. This is not a request. This is your
punishment.”

“Mr Potter—” Minerva said. She didn’t even know what she was going to
say. She simply couldn’t let that go by.

Harry made a shushing gesture at her and continued to speak to
Dumbledore. “And if that seems impolite to you,” Harry said, his voice
now a little less hard, “it seemed no less impolite when you said it to
me. You would not say such a thing to anyone who you considered a real
human being instead of a subordinate child, and I will treat you with
just the same courtesy as you treat me—”

“Oh, indeed, in very deed, this is my punishment if ever there was one!
Of course you’re in here blackmailing me to save your fellow students,
not to save yourself! I can’t imagine why I would have thought
otherwise!” Dumbledore was now laughing even harder. He pounded his fist
on the desk three times.

Harry’s gaze grew uncertain. His face turned toward her, addressing her
for the first time. “Excuse me,” Harry said. His voice seemed to be
wavering. “Does he need to take his medication or something?”

“Ah…” Minerva had no idea what she could possibly say.

“Well,” said Dumbledore. He wiped away tears that had formed in his
eyes. “Pardon me. I’m sorry for the interruption. Please continue with
the blackmail.”

Harry opened his mouth, then closed it again. He now seemed a little
unsteady. “Ah… he’s also to stop reading students’ minds.”

“Minerva,” Severus said, his voice deadly, “you—”

“Sorting Hat warned me,” said Harry.

“What?”

“Can’t say anything else. Anyway I think that’s it. I’m done.”

Silence.

“Now what?” Minerva said, when it became apparent that no-one else was
going to say anything.

“Now what?” Dumbledore echoed. “Why, now the hero wins, of course.”

“What?” said Severus, Minerva, and Harry.

“Well, he certainly seems to have backed us into a corner,” Dumbledore
said, smiling happily. “But Hogwarts does need an evil Potions Master,
or it just wouldn’t be a proper magical school, now would it? So how
about if Professor Snape is only awful toward students in their fifth
year and higher?”

“What?” said all three of them again.

“If it’s the most vulnerable victims about whom you’re concerned. Maybe
you’re right, Harry. Maybe I have forgotten over the decades what it’s
like to be a child. So let’s compromise. Severus will continue to
unfairly award points to Slytherin and impose lax discipline on his
House, and he will be awful to non-Slytherin students in their fifth
year and higher. To others he will be scary, but not abusive. He will
promise to only read minds when the safety of a student requires it.
Hogwarts will have its evil Potions Master, and the most vulnerable
victims, as you put it, will be safe.”

Minerva McGonagall was as shocked as she’d ever been in her life. She
glanced uncertainly at Severus, whose face had been left completely
neutral, as though he couldn’t decide what sort of expression he ought
to be wearing.

“I suppose that is acceptable,” Harry said. His voice sounded a bit odd.

“You can’t be serious,” Severus said, his voice as expressionless as his
face.

“I am very much in favour of this,” Minerva said slowly. She was so much
in favour that her heart was pounding wildly beneath her robes. “But
what could we possibly tell the students? They might not have questioned
this while Severus was… being awful to everyone, but—”

“Harry can tell the other students that he discovered a terrible secret
of Severus’s and did a bit of blackmail,” said Dumbledore. “It’s true,
after all; he discovered that Severus was reading minds, and he
certainly did blackmail us.”

“This is insanity!” exploded Severus.

“Bwah ha ha!” said Dumbledore.

“Ah…” said Harry uncertainly. “And if anyone asks me why fifth-years and
above got shafted? I wouldn’t blame them for being irate, and that part
wasn’t exactly my idea—”

“Tell them,” said Dumbledore, “that it wasn’t you who suggested the
compromise, that it was all you could get. And then refuse to say
anything more. That, too, is true. There’s an art to it, you’ll pick it
up with practice.”

Harry nodded slowly. “And the points he took from Ravenclaw?”

“They must not be given back.”

It was Minerva who said it.

Harry looked at her.

“I’m sorry, Mr Potter,” she said. She was sorry, but it had to be done.
“There must be some consequences for your misbehaviour or this school
will fall to pieces.”

Harry shrugged. “Acceptable,” he said flatly. “But in the future Severus
will not strike at my House connections by taking points from me, nor
will he waste my valuable time with detentions. Should he feel that my
behaviour requires correction, he may communicate his concerns to
Professor McGonagall.”

“Harry,” Minerva said, “will you continue to submit to school
discipline, or are you to be above the law now, as Severus was?”

Harry looked at her. Something warm touched his gaze, briefly before it
was quashed. “I will continue to be an ordinary student to every member
of the staff who is not insane or evil, provided that they do not come
under pressure from others who are.” Harry glanced briefly at Severus,
then turned back to Dumbledore. “Leave Minerva alone, and I’ll be a
regular Hogwarts student in her presence. No special privileges or
immunities.”

“Beautiful,” Dumbledore said sincerely. “Spoken like a true hero.”

“And,” she said, “Mr Potter must publicly apologize for his actions of
today.”

Harry gave her another look. This one was a bit skeptical.

“The discipline of the school has been gravely injured by your actions,
Mr Potter,” Minerva said. “It must be restored.”

“I think, Professor McGonagall, that you considerably overestimate the
importance of what you call school discipline, as compared to having
History taught by a live teacher or not torturing your students.
Maintaining the current status hierarchy and enforcing its rules seems
ever so much more wise and moral and important when you are on the top
and doing the enforcing than when you are on the bottom, and I can cite
studies to this effect if required. I could go on for several hours
about this point, but I will leave it at that.”

Minerva shook her head. “Mr Potter, you underestimate the importance of
discipline because you are not in need of it yourself—” She paused. That
hadn’t come out right, and Severus, Dumbledore, and even Harry were
giving her strange looks. “To learn, I mean. Not every child can learn
in the absence of authority. And it is the other children who will be
hurt, Mr Potter, if they see your example as one to be followed.”

Harry’s lips curved into a twisted smile. “The first and last resort is
the truth. The truth is that I shouldn’t have got angry, I shouldn’t
have disrupted the class, I shouldn’t have done what I did, and I set a
bad example for everyone. The truth is also that Severus Snape behaved
in a fashion unbecoming a Hogwarts professor, and that from now on he
will be more mindful of the injured feelings of students in their fourth
year and under. The two of us could both get up and speak the truth. I
could live with that.”

“In your dreams, Potter!” spat Severus.

“After all,” said Harry, smiling grimly, “if the students see that rules
are for everyone… for professors too, not just for poor helpless
students who get nothing but suffering out of the system… why, the
positive effects on school discipline should be tremendous.”

There was a brief pause, and then Dumbledore chuckled. “Minerva is
thinking that you’re righter than you have any right to be.”

Harry’s gaze jerked away from Dumbledore, down to the floor. “Are you
reading her mind?”

“Common sense is often mistaken for Legilimency,” said Dumbledore. “I
shall talk over this matter with Severus, and no apology will be
required from you unless he apologizes as well. And now I declare this
matter concluded, at least until lunchtime.” He paused. “Although,
Harry, I’m afraid that Minerva wished to speak with you about an
additional matter. And that is not the result of any pressure on my
part. Minerva, if you would?”

Minerva rose from her chair and almost fell. There was too much
adrenaline in her blood, her heart was beating too fast.

“Fawkes,” said Dumbledore, “accompany her, please.”

“I don’t—” she started to say.

Dumbledore shot her a look, and she fell silent.

The phœnix soared across the room like a smooth tongue of flame leaping
out, and landed on her shoulder. She felt the warmth through her robes,
all through her body.

“Please follow me, Mr Potter,” she said, firmly now, and they left
through the door.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They stood on the rotating stairs, descending in silence.

Minerva didn’t know what to say. She didn’t know this person who stood
beside her.

And Fawkes began to croon.

It was tender, and soft, like a fireplace would sound if it had melody,
and it washed over Minerva’s mind, easing, soothing, gentling what it
touched…

“What is that?” Harry whispered beside her. His voice was unstable,
wobbling, changing pitch.

“The song of the phœnix,” said Minerva, not really aware of what she was
saying, her attention was all on that strange quiet music. “It, too,
heals.”

Harry turned his face from her, but she caught a glimpse of something
agonized.

The descent seemed to take a very long time, or maybe it was only that
the music seemed to take a very long time, and when they stepped out
through the gap where a gargoyle had been, she was holding Harry’s hand
firmly in hers.

As the gargoyle stepped back into place, Fawkes left her shoulder, and
swooped to hover in front of Harry.

Harry stared at Fawkes like someone hypnotized by the ever-changing
light of a fire.

“What am I to do, Fawkes?” whispered Harry. “I couldn’t have protected
them if I hadn’t been angry.”

The phœnix’s wings continued flapping, it continued hovering in place.
There was no sound but the beating of the wings. Then there was a flash
like a fire flaring up and going out, and Fawkes was gone.

Both of them blinked, like waking up from a dream, or maybe like falling
asleep again.

Minerva looked down.

Harry Potter’s bright young face looked up at her.

“Are phœnixes people?” said Harry. “I mean, are they smart enough to
count as people? Could I talk with Fawkes if I knew how?”

Minerva blinked hard. Then she blinked again. “No,” Minerva said, her
voice wavering. “Phœnixes are creatures of powerful magic. That magic
gives their existence a weight of meaning which no simple animal could
possess. They are fire, light, healing, rebirth. But in the end, no.”

“Where can I get one?”

Minerva leaned down and hugged him. She hadn’t meant to, but she didn’t
seem to have much choice in the matter.

When she stood up she found it hard to speak. But she had to ask. “What
happened today, Harry?”

“I don’t know the answers to any of the important questions either.
Aside from that I’d really rather not think about it for a while.”

Minerva took his hand in hers again, and they walked the rest of the way
in silence.

It was only a short trip, since naturally the office of the Deputy was
close to the office of the Headmaster.

Minerva sat behind her desk.

Harry sat in front of her desk.

“So,” Minerva whispered. She would have given almost anything not to do
this, or not to be the one who had to do it, or for it to be any time
but right now. “There is a matter of school discipline. From which you
are not exempt.”

“Namely?” said Harry.

He didn’t know. He hadn’t figured it out yet. She felt her throat
tighten. But there was work to be done and she would not shirk it.

“Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, “I need to see your Time-Turner,
please.”

All the peace of the phœnix vanished from his face in an instant and
Minerva felt like she had just stabbed him.

“No!” Harry said. His voice was panicked. “I need it, I won’t be able to
attend Hogwarts, I won’t be able to sleep!”

“You’ll be able to sleep,” she said. “The Ministry has delivered the
protective shell for your Time-Turner. I will enchant it to open only
between the hours of 9 p.m. and midnight.”

Harry’s face twisted. “But—but I—”

“Mr Potter, how many times have you used the Time-Turner since Monday?
How many hours?”

“I…” Harry said. “Hold on, let me add it up—” He glanced down at his
watch.

Minerva felt a rush of sadness. She’d thought so. “It wasn’t just two
per day, then. I suspect that if I asked your dorm-mates, I would find
that you were struggling to stay up long enough to go to sleep at a
reasonable time, and waking up earlier and earlier every morning.
Correct?”

Harry’s face said everything she needed to know.

“Mr Potter,” she said gently, “there are students who cannot be
entrusted with Time-Turners, because they become addicted to them. We
give them a potion which lengthens their sleep cycle by the necessary
amount, but they end up using the Time-Turner for more than just
attending their classes. And so we must take them back. Mr Potter, you
have taken to using the Time-Turner as your solution to everything,
often very foolishly so. You used it to get back a Remembrall. You
vanished from a cupboard in a fashion apparent to other students,
instead of going back after you were out and getting me or someone else
to come and open the door.”

From the look on Harry’s face he hadn’t thought of that.

“And more importantly,” she said, “you should have simply sat in
Professor Snape’s class. And watched. And left at the end of class. As
you would have done if you had not possessed a Time-Turner. There are
some students who cannot be entrusted with Time-Turners, Mr Potter. You
are one of them. I am sorry.”

“But I need it!” Harry blurted. “What if there are Slytherins
threatening me and I have to escape? It keeps me safe—”

“Every other student in this castle runs the same risk, and I assure you
that they survive. No student has died in this castle for fifty years.
Mr Potter, you will hand over your Time-Turner and do so now.”

Harry’s face twisted in agony, but he drew out the Time-Turner from
under his robes and gave it to her.

From her desk, Minerva drew out one of the protective shells that had
been sent to Hogwarts. She snapped the cover into place around the
Time-Turner’s turning hourglass, and then she laid her wand on the cover
to complete the enchantment.

“This isn’t fair!” Harry shrieked. “I saved half of Hogwarts from
Professor Snape today, is it right that I be punished for it? I saw the
look on your face, you hated what he was doing!”

Minerva didn’t speak for a few moments. She was enchanting.

When she finished and looked up, she knew that her face was stern. Maybe
it was the wrong thing to do. And then again maybe it was the right
thing to do. There was an obstinate child in front of her, and that
didn’t mean the universe was broken.

“Fair, Mr Potter?” she snapped. “I have had to file two reports with the
Ministry on public use of a Time-Turner in two successive days! Be
extremely grateful you were allowed to retain the Time-Turner even in
restricted form! The Headmaster made a Floo call to plead with them
personally and if you were not the Boy-Who-Lived even that would not
have sufficed!”

Harry gaped at her.

She knew that he was seeing the angry face of Professor McGonagall.

Harry’s eyes filled up with tears.

“I’m, sorry,” he whispered, voice now choked and broken. “I’m sorry, to
have, disappointed you…”

“I’m sorry too, Mr Potter,” she said sternly, and handed him the newly
restricted Time-Turner. “You may go.”

Harry turned and fled from her office, sobbing. She heard his feet
pattering away down the hall, and then the sound cut off as the door
swung closed.

“I’m sorry too, Harry,” she whispered to the quiet room. “I’m sorry
too.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fifteen minutes into lunch hour.

No-one was speaking to Harry. Some of the Ravenclaws were shooting him
looks of anger, others of sympathy, a few of the youngest students even
had looks of admiration, but no-one was talking to him. Even Hermione
hadn’t tried to come over.

Fred and George had gingerly stepped near. They hadn’t said anything.
The offer was clear, and its optionality. Harry had told them that he
would come over when dessert started, no earlier. They had nodded and
quickly walked away.

It was probably the utterly expressionless look on Harry’s face that was
doing it.

The others probably thought he was controlling anger, or dismay. They
knew, because they’d seen Flitwick come and get him, that he’d been
called to the Headmaster’s office.

Harry was trying not to smile, because if he smiled, he would start
laughing, and if he started laughing, he wouldn’t stop until the nice
people in white jackets came to haul him away.

It was too much. It was just all too much. Harry had almost gone over to
the Dark Side, his dark side had done things that seemed in retrospect
insane, his dark side had won an impossible victory that might have been
real and might have been a pure whim of a crazy Headmaster, his dark
side had protected his friends. He just couldn’t handle it any more. He
needed Fawkes to sing to him again. He needed to use the Time-Turner to
go off and take a quiet hour to recover but that wasn’t an option any
more and the loss was like a hole in his existence but he couldn’t think
about that because then he might start laughing.

Twenty minutes. All the students who were going to eat lunch had
arrived, almost none had departed.

The tapping of a spoon rang through the Great Hall.

“If I may have your attention please,” Dumbledore said. “Harry Potter
has something he would like to share with us.”

Harry took a deep breath and got up. He walked over to the Head Table,
with every eye staring at him.

Harry turned and looked out at the four tables.

It was becoming harder and harder not to smile, but Harry kept his face
expressionless as he spoke his brief and memorized speech.

“The truth is sacred,” Harry said tonelessly. “One of my most treasured
possessions is a button which reads ‘Speak the truth, even if your voice
trembles’. This, then, is the truth. Remember that. I am not saying it
because I am being forced to say it, I am saying it because it is true.
What I did in Professor Snape’s class was foolish, stupid, childish, and
an inexcusable violation of the rules of Hogwarts. I disrupted the
classroom and deprived my fellow students of their irreplaceable
learning time. All because I failed to control my temper. I hope that
not a single one of you will ever follow my example. I certainly intend
to try never to follow it again.”

Many of the students gazing at Harry now had solemn, unhappy looks upon
their faces, such as one might see at a ceremony marking the loss of a
fallen champion. At the younger parts of the Gryffindor table the look
was almost universal.

Until Harry raised his hand.

He did not raise it high. That might have appeared peremptory. He
certainly did not raise it toward Severus. Harry simply raised his hand
to chest level, and softly snapped his fingers, a gesture that was seen
more than heard. It was possible that most of the Head Table wouldn’t
see it at all.

This seeming gesture of defiance won sudden smiles from the younger
students and Gryffindors, and coldly superior sneers from Slytherin, and
frowns and worried looks from all others.

Harry kept his face expressionless. “Thank you,” he said. “That’s all.”

“Thank you, Mr Potter,” said the Headmaster. “And now Professor Snape
has something to share with us as well.”

Severus smoothly stood up from his place at the Head Table. “It has been
brought to my attention,” he said, “that my own actions played a part in
provoking the admittedly inexcusable anger of Mr Potter, and in the
ensuing discussion I realized that I had forgotten how easily injured
are the feelings of the young and immature—”

There was the sound of many people emitting muffled chokes at the same
time.

Severus continued as if he had not heard. “The Potions classroom is a
dangerous place, and I still feel that strict discipline is necessary,
but henceforth I will be more aware of the… emotional fragility… of
students in their fourth year and younger. My deduction of points from
Ravenclaw still stands, but I will revoke Mr Potter’s detention. Thank
you.”

There was a single clap from the direction of Gryffindor and faster than
lightning Severus’s wand was in his hand and “Quietus!” silenced the
offender.

“I will still demand discipline and respect in all my classes,” Severus
said coldly, “and anyone who trifles with me will regret it.”

He sat down.

“Thank you too!” Headmaster Dumbledore said cheerfully. “Carry on!”

And Harry, still expressionless, began to walk back to his seat in
Ravenclaw.

There was an explosion of conversation. Two words were clearly
identifiable in the beginning. The first was an initial “What—”
beginning many different sentences such as “What just happened—” and
“What the hell—” The second was “Scourgify!” as students cleaned up the
dropped food and spit-out drinks from themselves, the tablecloth, and
each other.

Some students were weeping openly. So was Professor Sprout.

At the Gryffindor table, where a cake waited with fifty-one unlit
candles, Fred whispered, “I think we may be out of our league here,
George.”

And from that day onward, no matter what Hermione tried to tell anyone,
it would be an accepted legend of Hogwarts that Harry Potter could make
absolutely anything happen by snapping his fingers.

19. Delayed Gratification

E. Y.: Blood for the blood god! Skulls for J. K. Rowling!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

DRACO had a stern expression on his face, and his green-trimmed robes
somehow looked far more formal, serious, and well-turned-out than the
same exact robes as worn by the two boys behind him.

“Talk,” said Draco.

“Yeah! Talk!”

“You heard da boss! Talk!”

“You two, on the other hand, shut up.”

The last session of classes on Friday was about to start, in that vast
auditorium where all four Houses learned Defence, er, Battle Magic.

The last session of classes on Friday.

Harry was hoping that this class would be non-stressful, and that the
brilliant Professor Quirrell would realize this was perhaps not the best
time to single out Harry for anything. Harry had recovered a little,
but…

…but just in case, it was probably best to get in a bit of stress relief
first.

Harry leaned back in his chair and bestowed a look of great solemnity
upon Draco and his minions.

“You ask, what is our aim?” Harry declaimed. “I can answer in one word.
It is victory. Victory at all costs—Victory in spite of all
terrors—Victory, however long and hard the road may be, for without
victory there is no—”

“Talk about Snape,” Draco hissed. “What did you do?”

Harry wiped away the fake solemnity and gave Draco a more serious look.

“You saw it,” Harry said. “Everyone saw it. I snapped my fingers.”

“Harry! Stop teasing me!”

So he’d been promoted to Harry now. Interesting. And in fact Harry was
fairly sure that he was meant to notice that, and feel bad if he didn’t
respond somehow…

Harry tapped his ears and gave a significant glance at the minions.

“They won’t talk,” said Draco.

“Draco,” Harry said, “I’m going to be one hundred percent honest here
and say that yesterday I was not particularly impressed with Mr Goyle’s
cunning.”

Mr Goyle winced.

“Me neither,” said Draco. “I explained to him that I ended up owing you
a favour because of it.” (Mr Goyle winced again.) “But there is a big
difference between that sort of mistake and being indiscreet. That
really is something they’ve been trained from childhood to understand.”

“All right then,” Harry said. He lowered his voice, even though the
background noises had gone to blurs in Draco’s presence. “I deduced one
of Severus’s secrets and did a bit of blackmail.”

Draco’s expression hardened. “Good, now tell me something you didn’t
tell in strict confidence to the idiots in Gryffindor, meaning that was
the story you wanted to get all over the school.”

Harry grinned involuntarily and he knew that Draco had caught it.

“What is Severus saying?” Harry said.

“That he hadn’t realized how sensitive the feelings of young children
were,” Draco said. “Even in Slytherin! Even to me!”

“Are you sure,” Harry said, “that you want to know something your Head
of House would rather you not know?”

“Yes,” Draco said without hesitation.

Interesting. “Then you really are going to send your minions away first,
because I’m not sure I can believe everything you believe about them.”

Draco nodded. “Okay.”

Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle looked very unhappy. “Boss…” said Mr Crabbe.

“You’ve given Mr Potter no reason to trust you,” Draco said. “Go!”

They left.

“In particular,” Harry said, lowering his voice even further, “I’m not
entirely sure that they wouldn’t just report what I said to Lucius.”

“Father wouldn’t do that!” Draco said, looking genuinely aghast.
“They’re mine!”

“I’m sorry, Draco,” Harry said. “I’m just not sure I can believe
everything you believe about your father. Imagine it was your secret and
me telling you my father wouldn’t do that.”

Draco nodded slowly. “You’re right. I’m sorry, Harry. It was wrong of me
to ask it of you.”

How did I get this promoted? Shouldn’t he hate me now? Harry had the
feeling he was looking at something exploitable… he just wished his
brain wasn’t so exhausted. Ordinarily he would have loved to try his
hand at some complicated plotting.

“Anyway,” Harry said. “Trade. I tell you a fact that isn’t on the
grapevine, and does not go on the grapevine, and in particular does not
go to your father, and in return you tell me what you and Slytherin
think about the whole business.”

“Deal!”

Now to make this as vague as possible… something that wouldn’t hurt much
even if it did get out… “What I said was true. I did discover one of
Severus’s secrets, and I did do some blackmail. But Severus wasn’t the
only person involved.”

“I knew it!” Draco said exultantly.

Harry’s stomach sank. He had apparently said something very significant
and he did not know why. This was not a good sign.

“All right,” Draco said. He was grinning widely now. “So here’s what the
reaction was like in Slytherin. First, all the idiots were like, ‘We
hate Harry Potter! Let’s go beat him up!’”

Harry choked. “What is wrong with the Sorting Hat? That’s not Slytherin,
it’s Gryffindor—”

“Not all children are prodigies,” Draco said, though he was smiling in a
sort of nasty-conspiratorial way, as though to suggest that he privately
agreed with Harry’s opinion. “And it took around fifteen seconds for
someone to explain to them why this might not be such a favour to Snape,
so you’re fine. Anyway, after that was the second wave of idiots, the
ones who were saying, ‘Looks like Harry Potter was just another
do-gooder after all.’”

“And then?” Harry said, smiling even though he had no idea why that was
stupid.

“And then the actual smart people started talking. It’s obvious that you
found a way to put a lot of pressure on Snape. And while that could be
more than one thing… the obvious next thought is that it has something
to do with Snape’s unknown hold over Dumbledore. Am I right?”

“No comment,” Harry said. At least his brain was processing this part
correctly. House Slytherin had wondered why Severus wasn’t getting
fired. And they’d concluded that Severus was blackmailing Dumbledore.
Could that actually be true…? But Dumbledore hadn’t seemed to act like
it…

Draco went on talking. “And the next thing the smart people pointed out
was that if you could put enough pressure on Snape to make him leave
half of Hogwarts alone, that meant you probably had enough power to get
rid of him entirely, if you wanted. What you did to him was a
humiliation, just the same way he tried to humiliate you—but you left us
our Head of House.”

Harry made his smile wider.

“And then the really smart people,” Draco said, his face now serious,
“went off and had a little discussion by themselves, and someone pointed
out that it would be a very stupid thing to leave an enemy around like
that. If you could break his hold over Dumbledore, the obvious thing
would be to just do it. Dumbledore would kick Snape out of Hogwarts and
maybe even have him killed, he’d be very grateful to you, and you
wouldn’t have to worry about Snape sneaking into your dorm at night with
interesting potions.”

Harry’s face was now neutral. He had not thought of that and he really,
really should have. “And from this you concluded…?”

“Snape’s hold was some secret of Dumbledore’s and you’ve got the
secret!” Draco was looking exultant. “It can’t be powerful enough to
destroy Dumbledore entirely, or Snape would have used it by now. Snape
refuses to use his hold for anything except staying king of Slytherin
House in Hogwarts, and he doesn’t always get what he wants even then, so
it must have limits. But it’s got to be really good! Father’s been
trying to get Snape to tell him for years!”

“And,” Harry said, “now Lucius thinks maybe I can tell him. Did you
already get an owl—”

“I will tonight,” Draco said, and laughed. “It will say,” his voice took
on a different, more formal cadence, “My beloved son: I’ve already told
you of Harry Potter’s potential importance. As you have already
realized, his importance has now become greater and more urgent. If you
see any possible avenue of friendship or point of pressure with him, you
must pursue it, and the full resources of Malfoy are at your disposal if
needed.”

Gosh. “Well,” Harry said, “not commenting on whether or not your whole
complicated edifice of theory is true, let me just say that we are not
quite such good friends as yet.”

“I know,” Draco said. Then his face turned very serious, and his voice
grew quiet even within the blur. “Harry, has it occurred to you that if
you know something Dumbledore doesn’t want known, Dumbledore might
simply have you killed? And it would turn the Boy-Who-Lived from a
potential competing leader into a valuable martyr, too.”

“No comment,” Harry said yet again. He hadn’t thought of that last part,
either. Didn’t seem to be Dumbledore’s style… but…

“Harry,” Draco said, “you’ve obviously got incredible talent, but you’ve
got no training and no mentors and you do stupid things sometimes and
you really need an advisor who knows how to do this or you’re going to
get hurt!” Draco’s face was fierce.

“Ah,” Harry said. “An advisor like Lucius?”

“Like me!” said Draco. “I’ll promise to keep your secrets from Father,
from everyone, I’ll just help you figure out whatever you want to do!”

Wow.

Harry saw that zombie-Quirrell was staggering in through the doors.

“Class is about to start,” said Harry. “I’ll think about what you said,
there’s lots of times I do wish I had all your training, it’s just I
don’t know how I can trust you so quickly—”

“You shouldn’t,” Draco said, “it’s too soon. See? I’ll give you good
advice even if it hurts me. But we should maybe hurry up and become
closer friends.”

“I’m open to that,” said Harry, who was already trying to figure out how
to exploit it.

“Another bit of advice,” Draco said hurriedly as Quirrell slouched
toward his desk, “right now everyone in Slytherin’s wondering about you,
so if you’re courting us, which I think you are, you should do something
that signals friendship to Slytherin. Soon, like today or tomorrow.”

“Letting Severus go on awarding extra House points to Slytherin wasn’t
enough?” No reason Harry couldn’t take credit for it.

Draco’s eyes flickered with realization, then he said rapidly, “It’s not
the same, trust me, it’s got to be something obvious. Push your mudblood
rival Granger into a wall or something, everyone in Slytherin will know
what that means—”

“That is not how it works in Ravenclaw, Draco! If you have to push
someone into a wall it means your brain is too weak to beat them the
right way and everyone in Ravenclaw knows that—”

The screen on Harry’s desk flickered on, provoking a sudden wash of
nostalgia for television and computers.

“Ahem,” said Professor Quirrell’s voice, seeming to speak personally to
Harry out of the screen. “Please take your seats.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And the children were all seated and staring at the repeater screens on
their desks, or looking down directly at the great white marble stage
where Professor Quirrell stood, leaning on his desk atop the small dais
of darker marble.

“Today,” said Professor Quirrell, “I had planned to teach you your first
defensive spell, a small shield that was the ancestor of today’s
Protego. But on second thought I have changed today’s lesson plan in the
light of recent events.”

Professor Quirrell’s gaze searched the rows of seats. Harry winced from
where he was sitting, in the back row. He had a feeling he knew who was
about to be called on.

“Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy,” said Professor
Quirrell.

Whew.

“Yes, Professor?” said Draco. His voice was amplified, seeming to come
from the repeater screen on Harry’s desk, which showed Draco’s face as
he spoke. Then the screen shifted back to Professor Quirrell, who said:

“Is it your ambition to become the next Dark Lord?”

“That’s an odd question, Professor,” said Draco. “I mean, who’d be dumb
enough to admit it?”

A few students laughed, but not many.

“Indeed,” said Professor Quirrell. “So while there’s no point in asking
any of you, it would not surprise me in the slightest if there were a
student or two in my classes who harboured ambitions of being the next
Dark Lord. After all, I wanted to be the next Dark Lord when I was a
young Slytherin.”

This time the laughter was much more widespread.

“Well, it is the House of the ambitious, after all,” Professor Quirrell
said, smiling. “I didn’t realize until later that what I really enjoyed
was Battle Magic, and that my true ambition was to become a great
fighting wizard and some day teach at Hogwarts. In any case, when I was
thirteen years old, I read through the historical sections of the
Hogwarts library, scrutinizing the lives and fates of past Dark Lords,
and I made a list of all the mistakes that I would never make when I was
a Dark Lord—”

Harry giggled before he could stop himself.

“Yes, Mr Potter, very amusing. So, Mr Potter, can you guess what was the
very first item on that list?”

Great. “Um… never use a complicated way of dealing with an enemy when
you can just Abracadabra them?”

“The term, Mr Potter, is Avada Kedavra,” Professor Quirrell’s voice
sounded a bit sharp for some reason, “and no, that was not on the list I
made at age thirteen. Would you care to guess again?”

“Ah… never brag to anyone about your evil master plan?”

Professor Quirrell laughed. “Ah, now that was number two. My, Mr Potter,
have we been reading the same books?”

There was more laughter, with an undertone of nervousness. Harry
clenched his jaw tightly shut and said nothing. A denial would
accomplish nothing.

“But no. The first item was, ‘I will not go around provoking strong,
vicious enemies.’ The history of the world would be very different if
Mornelithe Falconsbane or Adolf Hitler had grasped that elementary
point. Now if, Mr Potter—just if by some chance you harbour an ambition
similar to the one I held as a young Slytherin—even so, I hope it is not
your ambition to become a stupid Dark Lord.”

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said, gritting his teeth, “I am a Ravenclaw
and it is not my ambition to be stupid, period. I know that what I did
today was dumb. But it wasn’t Dark! I was not the one who threw the
first punch in that fight!”

“You, Mr Potter, are an idiot. But then so was I at your age. Thus I
anticipated your answer and altered today’s lesson plan accordingly.
Mr Gregory Goyle, if you would come forward, please?”

There was a surprised pause in the classroom. Harry hadn’t been
expecting that.

Neither, from the looks of it, had Mr Goyle, who looked rather uncertain
and worried as he mounted the marble stage and approached the dais.

Professor Quirrell straightened from where he was leaning on the desk.
He looked suddenly stronger, and his hands formed fists and he drew
himself up into a clearly recognizable martial arts stance.

Harry’s eyes widened at the sight, and he realized why Mr Goyle had been
called up.

“Most wizards,” Professor Quirrell said, “do not bother much with what a
Muggle would term martial arts. Is not a wand stronger than a fist? This
attitude is stupid. Wands are held in fists. If you want to be a great
fighting wizard you must learn martial arts to a level which would
impress even a Muggle. I will now demonstrate a certain vitally
important technique, which I learned in a dojo, a Muggle school of
martial arts, of which I shall speak more shortly. For now…” Professor
Quirrell took several steps forward, still in stance, advancing on where
Mr Goyle stood. “Mr Goyle, I will ask you to attack me.”

“Professor Quirrell,” said Mr Goyle, his voice now amplified as the
professor’s was, “can I ask what level—”

“Sixth dan. You will not be hurt and neither will I. And if you see an
opening, please take it.”

Mr Goyle nodded, looking much relieved.

“Note,” Professor Quirrell said, “that Mr Goyle was afraid to attack
someone who did not know martial arts to an acceptable level, for fear
that I, or he, would be hurt. Mr Goyle’s attitude is exactly correct and
he has earned three Quirrell points for it. Now, fight!”

The young boy blurred forward, fists flying, and the Professor blocked
every blow, dancing backward, Quirrell kicked and Goyle blocked and spun
and tried to trip Quirrell with a sweeping leg and Quirrell hopped over
it and it was all happening too fast for Harry to make sense of what was
going on and then Goyle was on his back with his legs pushing and
Quirrell was actually flying through the air and then he hit the ground
shoulder first and rolled.

“Stop!” cried Professor Quirrell from the ground, sounding a little
panicked. “You win!”

Mr Goyle pulled up so sharply he staggered, almost tripping and falling
from the aborted momentum of his headlong charge toward Professor
Quirrell. His face showed utter shock.

Professor Quirrell arched his back and bounced to his feet using a
peculiar springing motion that made no use of his hands.

There was a silence in the classroom, a silence born of total confusion.

“Mr Goyle,” said Professor Quirrell, “what vitally important technique
did I demonstrate?”

“How to fall correctly when someone throws you,” said Mr Goyle. “It’s
one of the very first lessons you learn—”

“That too,” said Professor Quirrell.

There was a pause.

“The vitally important technique which I demonstrated,” said Professor
Quirrell, “was how to lose. You may go, Mr Goyle, thank you.”

Mr Goyle walked off the platform, looking rather bewildered. Harry felt
the same way.

Professor Quirrell walked back to his desk and resumed leaning on it.
“Sometimes we forget the most basic things, since it has been too long
since we learned them. I realized I had done the same with my own lesson
plan. You do not teach students to throw until you have taught them to
fall. And I must not teach you to fight if you do not understand how to
lose.”

Professor Quirrell’s face hardened, and Harry thought he saw a hint of
pain, a touch of sorrow, in those eyes. “I learned how to lose in a dojo
in Asia, which, as any Muggle knows, is where all the good martial
artists live. This dojo taught a style which had a reputation among
fighting wizards as adapting well to magical duelling. The Master of
that dojo—an old man by Muggle standards—was that style’s greatest
living teacher. He had no idea that magic existed, of course. I applied
to study there, and was one of the few students accepted that year, from
among many contenders. There might have been a tiny bit of special
influence involved.”

There was some laughter in the classroom. Harry didn’t share it. That
hadn’t been right at all.

“In any case. During one of my first fights, after I had been beaten in
a particularly humiliating fashion, I lost control and attacked my
sparring partner—”

Yikes.

“—thankfully with my fists, rather than my magic. The Master,
surprisingly, did not expel me on the spot. But he told me that there
was a flaw in my temperament. He explained it to me, and I knew that he
was right. And then he said that I would learn how to lose.”

Professor Quirrell’s face was expressionless.

“Upon his strict orders, all of the students of the dojo lined up. One
by one, they approached me. I was not to defend myself. I was only to
beg for mercy. One by one, they slapped me, or punched me, and pushed me
to the ground. Some of them spat on me. They called me awful names in
their language. And to each one, I had to say, ‘I lose!’ and similar
such things, such as ‘I beg you to stop!’ and ‘I admit you’re better
than me!’”

Harry was trying to imagine this and simply failing. There was no way
something like that could have happened to the dignified Professor
Quirrell.

“I was a prodigy of Battle Magic even then. With wandless magic alone I
could have killed everyone in that dojo. I did not do so. I learned to
lose. To this day I remember it as one of the most unpleasant hours of
my life. And when I left that dojo eight months later—which was not
nearly enough time, but was all I could afford to spend—the Master told
me that he hoped I understood why that had been necessary. And I told
him that it was one of the most valuable lessons I had ever learned.
Which was, and is, true.”

Professor Quirrell’s face turned bitter. “You are wondering where this
marvellous dojo is, and whether you can study there. You cannot. For not
long afterwards, another would-be student came to that hidden place, to
that remote mountain. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.”

There was the sound of many breaths being drawn in simultaneously. Harry
felt sick to his stomach. He knew what was coming.

“The Dark Lord came to that school openly, without disguise, glowing red
eyes and all. The students tried to bar his way and he simply Apparated
through. There was terror there, but discipline, and the Master came
forth. And the Dark Lord demanded—not asked, but demanded—to be taught.”

Professor Quirrell’s face was very hard. “Perhaps the Master had read
too many books telling the lie that a true martial artist could defeat
even demons. For whatever reason, the Master refused. The Dark Lord
asked why he could not be a student. The Master told him he had no
patience, and that was when the Dark Lord ripped his tongue out.”

There was a collective gasp.

“You can guess what happened next. The students tried to rush the Dark
Lord and fell over, stunned where they stood. And then…”

Professor Quirrell’s voice faltered for a moment, then resumed.

“There is an Unforgiveable Curse, the Cruciatus Curse, which produces
unbearable pain. If the Cruciatus is extended for longer than a few
minutes it produces permanent insanity. One by one, the Dark Lord
Crucioed the Master’s students into insanity, and then finished them off
with the Killing Curse, while the Master was forced to watch. When all
his students had died in this way, the Master followed. I learned this
from the single surviving student, whom the Dark Lord had left alive to
tell the tale, and who had been a friend of mine…”

Professor Quirrell turned away, and when he turned back a moment later,
he once again seemed calm and composed.

“Dark Wizards cannot keep their tempers,” Professor Quirrell said
quietly. “It is a nearly universal flaw of the species, and anyone who
makes a habit of fighting them soon learns to rely on it. Understand
that the Dark Lord did not win that day. His goal was to learn martial
arts, and yet he left without a single lesson. The Dark Lord was foolish
to wish that story retold. It did not show his strength, but rather an
exploitable weakness.”

Professor Quirrell’s gaze focused on a single child in the classroom.

“Harry Potter,” Professor Quirrell said.

“Yes,” Harry said, his voice hoarse.

“What precisely did you do wrong today, Mr Potter?”

Harry felt like he was going to throw up. “I lost my temper.”

“That is not precise,” said Professor Quirrell. “I will describe it more
exactly. There are many animals which have what are called dominance
contests. They rush at each other with horns—trying to knock each other
down, not gore each other. They fight with their paws—with claws
sheathed. But why with their claws sheathed? Surely, if they used their
claws, they would stand a better chance of winning? But then their enemy
might unsheathe their claws as well, and instead of resolving the
dominance contest with a winner and a loser, both of them might be
severely hurt.”

Professor Quirrell’s gaze seemed to come straight out at Harry from the
repeater screen. “What you demonstrated today, Mr Potter, is that—unlike
those animals who keep their claws sheathed and accept the results—you
do not know how to lose a dominance contest. When a Hogwarts professor
challenged you, you did not back down. When it looked like you might
lose, you unsheathed your claws, heedless of the danger. You escalated,
and then you escalated again. It started with a slap at you from
Professor Snape, who was obviously dominant over you. Instead of losing,
you slapped back and lost ten points from Ravenclaw. Soon you were
talking about leaving Hogwarts. The fact that you escalated even further
in some unknown direction, and somehow won at the end, does not change
the fact that you are an idiot.”

“I understand,” Harry said. His throat was dry. That had been precise.
Frighteningly precise. Now that Professor Quirrell had said it, Harry
could see in hindsight that it was an exactly accurate description of
what had happened. When someone’s model of you was that good, you had to
wonder whether they were right about other things too, like your intent
to kill.

“The next time, Mr Potter, that you choose to escalate a contest rather
than lose, you may lose all the stakes you place on the table. I cannot
guess what they were today. I can guess that they were far, far too high
for the loss of ten House points.”

Like the fate of magical Britain. That was what he’d done.

“You will protest that you were trying to help all of Hogwarts, a much
more important goal worthy of great risks. That is a lie. If you had
been—”

“I would have taken the slap, waited, and picked the best possible time
to make my move,” Harry said, his voice hoarse. “But that would have
meant losing. Letting him be dominant over me. It was what the Dark Lord
couldn’t do with the Master he wanted to learn from.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “I see that you have understood perfectly.
And so, Mr Potter, today you are going to learn how to lose.”

“I—”

“I will not hear any objections, Mr Potter. It is evident both that you
need this and that you are strong enough to take it. I assure you that
your experience will not be so harsh as what I went through, though you
may well remember it as the worst fifteen minutes of your young life.”

Harry swallowed. “Professor Quirrell,” he said in a small voice, “can we
do this some other time?”

“No,” Professor Quirrell said simply. “You are five days into your
Hogwarts education and already this has happened. Today is Friday. Our
next defence class is on Wednesday. Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday… No, we do not have time to wait.”

There were a few laughs at this, but very few.

“Please consider it an order from your professor, Mr Potter. What I
would like to say is that otherwise I will not teach you any offensive
spells, because I would then hear that you had severely hurt or even
killed someone. Unfortunately I am told that your fingers are already
powerful weapons. Do not snap them at any time during this lesson.”

More scattered laughter, sounding rather nervous.

Harry felt like he might cry. “Professor Quirrell, if you do anything
like what you talked about, it’s going to make me angry, and I really
would rather not get angry again today—”

“The point is not to avoid getting angry,” Professor Quirrell said, his
face looking grave. “Anger is natural. You need to learn how to lose
even when you are angry. Or at least pretend to lose so that you can
plan your vengeance. As I did with Mr Goyle today, unless of course any
of you think he really is better—”

“I’m not!” shouted Mr Goyle from his desk, sounding a little frantic. “I
know you didn’t really lose! Please don’t plan any vengeances!”

Harry felt sick to his stomach. Professor Quirrell didn’t know about his
mysterious dark side. “Professor, we really need to talk about this
after class—”

“We will,” Professor Quirrell said in the tones of a promise. “After you
learn how to lose.” His face was serious. “It should go without saying
that I will exclude anything which could injure you or even cause you
significant pain. The pain will come from the difficulty of losing,
instead of fighting back and escalating the battle until you win.”

Harry’s breath was coming in short, panicky pants. He was more
frightened than he’d been after leaving the Potions classroom.
“Professor Quirrell,” he managed to say, “I don’t want you to get fired
over this—”

“I will not be,” Professor Quirrell said, “if you tell them afterwards
that it was necessary. And this I trust you to do.” For a moment
Professor Quirrell’s voice turned very dry. “Believe me, they have
tolerated worse in their hallways. This case will be exceptional only in
that it happens within a classroom.”

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry whispered, but he thought his voice was
still being repeated everywhere, “do you really believe that if I don’t
do this, I might hurt someone?”

“Yes,” Professor Quirrell said simply.

“Then,” Harry felt nauseous, “I’ll do it.”

Professor Quirrell turned to regard the Slytherins. “So… with the full
approval of your teacher, and in such a fashion that Snape cannot be
blamed for your actions… do any of you wish to show your dominance over
the Boy-Who-Lived? Shove him around, push him to the ground, hear him
beg for your mercy?”

Five hands went up.

“Everyone with your hand raised, you are an absolute idiot. What part of
pretending to lose did you not understand? If Harry Potter does become
the next Dark Lord he will hunt you down and kill you after he
graduates.”

The five hands dropped abruptly back to their desks.

“I won’t,” Harry said, his voice coming out rather weakly. “I swear
never to take vengeance upon those who help me learn to lose. Professor
Quirrell… would you please… stop that?”

Professor Quirrell sighed. “I am sorry, Mr Potter. I realize that you
must find this equally annoying whether you intend to become a Dark Lord
or not. But those children also had an important life lesson to learn.
Would it be acceptable if I awarded you a Quirrell point in apology?”

“Make it two,” Harry said.

There was a current of surprised laughter, defusing some of the tension.

“Done,” Professor Quirrell said.

“And after I graduate I’m going to hunt you down and tickle you.”

There was more laughter, although Professor Quirrell didn’t smile.

Harry felt like he was wrestling an anaconda, trying to force the
conversation through the narrow course that would make people realize he
wasn’t a Dark Lord after all… why was Professor Quirrell so suspicious
of him?

“Professor,” said Draco’s unamplified voice. “It is also not my own
ambition to become a stupid Dark Lord.”

There was a shocked silence in the classroom.

You don’t have to do this! Harry almost blurted out loud, but checked
himself in time; Draco might not wish it known that he was doing this
out of friendship for Harry… or out of the desire to appear friendly…

Calling that a desire to appear friendly made Harry feel small, and
mean. If Draco had intended to impress him, it was working perfectly.

Professor Quirrell was regarding Draco gravely. “You worry that you
cannot pretend to lose, Mr Malfoy? That this flaw which describes
Mr Potter also describes you? Surely your father taught you better.”

“When it comes to talking, maybe,” said Draco, now on the repeater
screen. “Not when it comes to being shoved around and pushed to the
ground. I want to be fully as strong as you, Professor Quirrell.”

Professor Quirrell’s eyebrows went up and stayed up. “I am afraid,
Mr Malfoy,” he said after a time, “that the arrangements I made for
Mr Potter, involving some older Slytherins who will be told afterwards
how stupid they were, would not carry over onto you. But it is my
professional opinion that you are already very strong. Should I hear
that you have failed, as Mr Potter failed today, I will make the
appropriate arrangements and apologize to you and whomever you have
hurt. I do not think this will be necessary, however.”

“I understand, professor,” said Draco.

Professor Quirrell looked over the class. “Does anyone else wish to
become strong?”

Some students glanced around nervously. Some, Harry thought from his
back row, looked like they were opening their mouths but not saying
anything. In the end, no-one spoke.

“Draco Malfoy will be one of the generals of your year’s armies,” said
Professor Quirrell, “should he deign to engage in that after-school
activity. And now, Mr Potter, please come forward.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes, Professor Quirrell had said, it must be in front of everyone, in
front of your friends, because that is where Snape confronted you and
that is where you must learn to lose.

So now the first year watched. In magically enforced silence, and with
requests from both Harry and the professor not to intervene. Hermione
had her face turned away, but she hadn’t spoken out or even given him
any sort of significant look, maybe because she’d been there in Potions
too.

Harry stood on a soft blue mat, such as might be found in a Muggle dojo,
which Professor Quirrell had laid out upon the floor for when Harry was
pushed down.

Harry was frightened of what he might do. If Professor Quirrell was
right about his intent to kill…

Harry’s wand lay on Professor Quirrell’s desk, not because Harry knew
any spells that could defend him, but because otherwise (Harry thought)
he might have tried to jam it through someone’s eye socket. His pouch
lay there, now containing his protected but still potentially fragile
Time-Turner.

Harry had pleaded with Professor Quirrell to Transfigure him some boxing
gloves and lock them on his hands. Professor Quirrell had given him a
look of silent understanding, and refused.

I will not go for their eyes, I will not go for their eyes, I will not
go for their eyes, it would be the end of my life in Hogwarts, I’ll be
arrested, Harry chanted to himself, trying to hammer the thought into
his brain, hoping it would stay there if his intent to kill took over.

Professor Quirrell returned, escorting thirteen older Slytherins of
different years. Harry recognized one of them as the one he’d hit with a
pie. Two others from that confrontation were also present. The one who’d
said to stop, that they really shouldn’t do this, was missing.

“I repeat,” Professor Quirrell said, sounding very stern, “Potter is not
to be really hurt. Any and all accidents will be treated as deliberate.
Do you understand?”

The older Slytherins nodded, grinning.

“Then please feel free to take the Boy-Who-Lived down a few pegs,”
Professor Quirrell said, with a twisted smile that only the first-years
understood.

By some form of mutual consent, the pie-target was at the front of the
group.

“Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, “meet Mr Peregrine Derrick. He is
better than you and he is about to show you that.”

Derrick strode forward and Harry’s brain screamed discordantly, he must
not run away, he must not fight back—

Derrick stopped an arm’s length away from Harry.

Harry wasn’t angry yet, just frightened. And that meant he beheld a
teenage boy fully half a metre taller than himself, with clearly defined
muscles, facial hair, and a grin of terrible anticipation.

“Ask him not to hurt you,” Professor Quirrell said. “Perhaps if he sees
that you’re pathetic enough, he’ll decide that you’re boring, and go
away.”

There was laughter from the watching older Slytherins.

“Please,” Harry said, his voice faltering, “don’t, hurt, me…”

“That didn’t sound very sincere,” said Professor Quirrell.

Derrick’s smile widened. The clumsy imbecile was looking very superior
and…

…Harry’s blood temperature was dropping…

“Please don’t hurt me,” Harry tried again.

Professor Quirrell shook his head. “How in Merlin’s name did you manage
to make that sound like an insult, Potter? There is only one response
you can possibly expect from Mr Derrick.”

Derrick stepped forward deliberately, and bumped into Harry.

Harry staggered back a few feet and, before he could stop himself,
straightened up icily.

“Wrong,” said Professor Quirrell, “wrong, wrong, wrong.”

“You bumped into me, Potter,” Derrick said. “Apologize.”

“I’m sorry!”

“You don’t sound sorry,” said Derrick.

Harry’s eyes widened in indignation, he had managed to make that sound
pleading—

Derrick pushed him, hard, and Harry fell to the mat on his hands and
knees.

The blue fabric seemed to waver in Harry’s vision, not far away.

He was beginning to doubt Professor Quirrell’s real motives in teaching
this so-called lesson.

A foot rested on Harry’s buttocks and a moment later Harry was pushed
hard to the side, sending him sprawling on his back.

Derrick laughed. “This is fun,” he said.

All he had to do was say it was over. And report the whole thing to the
Headmaster’s office. That would be the end of this Defence Professor and
his ill-fated stay at Hogwarts and… Professor McGonagall would be angry
about that, but…

(An image of Professor McGonagall’s face flashed before his eyes, she
didn’t look angry, just sad—)

“Now tell him that he’s better than you, Potter,” said Professor
Quirrell’s voice.

“You’re, better, than, me.”

Harry started to raise himself and Derrick put a foot on his chest and
shoved him back down to the mat.

The world was becoming transparent as crystal. Lines of action and their
consequences stretched out before him in utter clarity. The fool
wouldn’t be expecting him to strike back, a quick hit in the groin would
stun him long enough for—

“Try again,” said Professor Quirrell and with a sudden sharp motion
Harry rolled and sprang to his feet and whirled on where stood his real
enemy, the Defence Professor—

Professor Quirrell said, “You have no patience.”

Harry faltered. His mind, well-honed in pessimism, drew a picture of a
wizened old man with blood pouring from his mouth after Harry had ripped
his tongue out—

A moment later, Derrick pushed Harry to the mat again and then sat down
on him, sending Harry’s breath whooshing out.

“Stop!” Harry screamed. “Please stop!”

“Better,” said Professor Quirrell. “That even sounded sincere.”

It had been. That was the horrible thing, the sickening thing, it had
been sincere. Harry was panting rapidly, fear and cold anger both
flushing through him—

“Lose,” said Professor Quirrell.

“I, lose,” Harry forced out.

“I like it,” Derrick said from on top of him. “Lose some more.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hands shoved Harry, sending him stumbling across the circle of older
Slytherins to another set of hands that shoved him again. Harry had long
since passed the point of trying not to cry, and was now just trying not
to fall down.

“What are you, Potter?” said Derrick.

“A, l-loser, I lose, I give up, you win, you’re b-better, than me,
please stop—”

Harry tripped over a foot and went crashing to the ground, hands not
quite able to catch himself. He was dazed for a moment, then began
struggling to his feet again—

“Enough!” said Professor Quirrell’s voice, sounding sharp enough to cut
iron. “Step away from Mr Potter!”

Harry saw the surprised looks on their faces. The chill in his blood,
which had been flowing and ebbing, smiled in cold satisfaction.

Then Harry collapsed to the mat.

Professor Quirrell talked. There were gasps from the older Slytherins.

“And I believe the scion of Malfoy has something he wants to explain to
you as well,” finished Professor Quirrell.

Draco’s voice started talking. His voice sounded almost as sharp as
professor Quirrell’s, it had acquired the same cadence Draco had used to
imitate his father, and it was saying things like could have put
Slytherin House in jeopardy and who knows how many allies in this school
alone and total lack of awareness, never mind cunning and dull thugs,
useful for nothing but lackeys and something in Harry’s hindbrain,
despite everything he knew, was designating Draco as an ally.

Harry ached all over, was probably bruised, his body felt cold, his mind
utterly exhausted. He tried to think of Fawkes’s song, but without the
phœnix present he couldn’t remember the melody and when he tried to
imagine it he couldn’t seem to think of anything except a bird chirping.

Then Draco stopped talking and Professor Quirrell told the older
Slytherins they were dismissed, and Harry opened his eyes and struggled
to sit up, “Wait,” Harry said, forcing the words out, “there’s
something, I want, to say, to them—”

“Wait on Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said coldly to the departing
Slytherins.

Harry swayed to his feet. He was careful not to look in the direction of
his classmates. He didn’t want to see how they were looking at him now.
He didn’t want to see their pity.

So instead Harry looked at the older Slytherins, who still seemed to be
in a state of shock. They stared back at him. Dread was on their faces.

His dark side, when it was in control, had held to the imagination of
this moment, and went on pretending to lose.

Harry said, “No-one will—”

“Stop,” said Professor Quirrell. “If that’s what I think it is, please
wait until after they’re gone. They’ll hear about it later. We all have
our lessons to learn, Mr Potter.”

“All right,” Harry said.

“You. Go.”

The older Slytherins fled and the door closed behind them.

“No-one’s to take any revenge on them,” Harry said hoarsely. “That’s a
request to anyone who considers themselves my friend. I had my lesson to
learn, they helped me learn it, they had their lesson to learn too, it’s
over. If you tell this story, make sure you tell that part too.”

Harry turned to look at Professor Quirrell.

“You lost,” said Professor Quirrell, his voice gentle for the first
time. It sounded strange coming from the professor, like his voice
shouldn’t even be able to do that.

Harry had lost. There had been moments when the cold anger had faded
entirely, replaced by fear, and during those moments he’d begged the
older Slytherins and he’d meant it…

“And are you yet alive?” said Professor Quirrell, still with that
strange gentleness.

Harry managed to nod.

“Not all losing is like this,” said Professor Quirrell. “There are
compromises and negotiated surrenders. There are other ways to placate
bullies. There is a whole art form to manipulating others by letting
them be dominant over you. But first, losing must be thinkable. Will you
remember how you lost?”

“Yes.”

“Will you be able to lose?”

“I… think so…”

“I think so too.” Professor Quirrell bowed so low that his thin hair
almost touched the floor. “Congratulations, Harry Potter, you win.”

There was no single source, no first mover, the applause started all at
once like a massive thunderclap.

Harry’s couldn’t keep the shock from his face. He risked a glance at his
classmates, and he saw their faces showing not pity but awe. The
applause was coming from Ravenclaw and Gryffindor and Hufflepuff and
even Slytherin, probably because Draco Malfoy was applauding too. Some
students were standing up from their chairs and half of Gryffindor was
standing on their desks.

So Harry stood there, swaying, letting their respect wash over him,
feeling stronger, and maybe even a little healed.

Professor Quirrell waited for the applause to die away. It took quite a
while.

“Surprised, Mr Potter?” Professor Quirrell said. His voice sounded
amused. “You have just found out that the real world does not always
work like your worst nightmares. Yes, if you had been some poor
anonymous boy being abused, then they would probably have respected you
less afterwards, pitied you even as they comforted you from their
loftier perches. That is human nature, I’m afraid. But you they already
know for a figure of power. And they saw you confront your fear and keep
confronting it, even though you could have walked away at any time. Did
you think less of me when I told you that I had deliberately endured
being spat upon?”

Harry felt a burning sensation in his throat and frantically clamped
down. He didn’t trust this miraculous respect enough to start crying
again in front of it.

“Your extraordinary achievement in my class deserves an extraordinary
reward, Harry Potter. Please accept it with my compliments on behalf of
my House, and remember from this day forward that not all Slytherins are
alike. There are Slytherins, and then there are Slytherins.” Professor
Quirrell was smiling quite broadly as he said this. “Fifty-one points to
Ravenclaw.”

There was a shocked pause and then pandemonium broke out among the
Ravenclaw students, howling and whistling and cheering.

(And in the same moment Harry felt something wrong about that, Professor
McGonagall had been right, there should have been consequences, there
should have been a cost and a price to be paid, you couldn’t just put
everything back the way it was like that—)

But Harry saw the elated faces in Ravenclaw and knew he couldn’t
possibly say no.

His brain made a suggestion. It was a good suggestion. Harry could not
even believe his brain was still keeping him upright, let alone
producing good suggestions.

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said, as clearly as he could through his
burning throat. “You are everything a member of your House should be,
and I think you must be just what Salazar Slytherin had in mind when he
helped found Hogwarts. I thank you and your House,” Draco was very
slightly nodding and subtly turning his finger, keep going, “and I think
this calls for three cheers for Slytherin. With me, everyone?” Harry
paused. “Huzzah!” Only a few people managed to join in on the first try.
“Huzzah!” This time most of Ravenclaw was in on it. “Huzzah!” That was
almost all of Ravenclaw, a scattering of Hufflepuffs and around a
quarter of Gryffindor.

Draco’s hand moved into a small, quick, thumbs-up gesture.

Most of the Slytherins had expressions of sheer shock. A few were
staring at Professor Quirrell in wonder. Blaise Zabini was looking at
Harry with a calculating, intrigued expression.

Professor Quirrell bowed. “Thank you, Harry Potter,” he said, still with
that broad smile. He turned to the class. “Now, believe it or not, we
still have half an hour left in this session, and that is enough to
introduce the Simple Shield. Mr Potter, of course, is going off and
taking a well-earned rest.”

“I can—”

“Idiot,” Professor Quirrell said fondly. The class was already laughing.
“Your classmates can teach you afterwards, or I’ll tutor you privately
if that’s what it takes. But right now, you’re going through the third
door from the left in the back of the stage, where you will find a bed,
an assortment of exceptionally tasty snacks, and some extremely light
reading from the Hogwarts library. You may not take anything else with
you, particularly not your textbooks. Now go.”

Harry went.

20. Bayes’s Theorem

E. Y.: That which can be destroyed by the Rowling should be.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

HARRY stared up at the grey ceiling of the small room, from where he lay
on the portable yet soft bed that had been placed there. He’d eaten
quite a lot of Professor Quirrell’s snacks—intricate confections of
chocolate and other substances, dusted with sparkling sprinkles and
jewelled with tiny sugar gems, looking highly expensive and proving, in
fact, to be quite tasty. Harry hadn’t felt the least bit guilty about it
either, this he had earned.

He hadn’t tried to sleep. Harry had a feeling that he wouldn’t like what
happened when he closed his eyes.

He hadn’t tried to read. He wouldn’t have been able to focus.

Funny how Harry’s brain just seemed to keep on running and running,
never shutting down no matter how tired it got. It got stupider but it
refused to switch off.

But there was, there really and truly was a feeling of triumph.

Anti-Dark-Lord-Harry programme, +1 point didn’t begin to cover it. Harry
wondered what the Sorting Hat would say now, if he could put it on his
head.

No wonder Professor Quirrell had accused Harry of heading down the path
of a Dark Lord. Harry had been too slow on the uptake, he should have
seen the parallel right away—

Understand that the Dark Lord did not win that day. His goal was to
learn martial arts, and yet he left without a single lesson.

Harry had entered the Potions class with the intent to learn Potions.
He’d left without a single lesson.

And Professor Quirrell had heard, and understood with frightening
precision, and reached out and yanked Harry off that path, the path that
led to his becoming a copy of You-Know-Who.

There was a knock at the door. “Classes are over,” said Professor
Quirrell’s quiet voice.

Harry approached the door and found himself suddenly nervous. Then the
tension diminished as he heard Professor Quirrell’s footsteps moving
away from the door.

What on Earth is that about? Is it what’s going to get him fired
eventually?

Harry opened the door, and saw that Professor Quirrell was now waiting
several body-lengths away.

Does Professor Quirrell feel it too?

They walked across the now-deserted stage to Professor Quirrell’s desk,
which Professor Quirrell leaned on; and Harry, as before, stopped short
of the dais.

“So,” Professor Quirrell said. There was a friendly sense about him
somehow, even though his face still kept its usual seriousness. “What
was it you wanted to talk to me about, Mr Potter?”

I have a mysterious dark side. But Harry couldn’t just blurt it out like
that.

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said, “am I off the path to becoming a Dark
Lord, now?”

Professor Quirrell looked at Harry. “Mr Potter,” he said solemnly, with
only a slight grin, “a word of advice. There is such a thing as a
performance which is too perfect. Real people who have just been beaten
and humiliated for fifteen minutes do not stand up and graciously
forgive their enemies. It is the sort of thing you do when you’re trying
to convince everyone you’re not Dark, not—”

“I can’t believe this! You can’t have every possible observation confirm
your theory!”

“And that was a trifle too much indignation.”

“What on Earth do I have to do to convince you?”

“To convince me that you harbour no ambitions of becoming a Dark Lord?”
said Professor Quirrell, now looking outright amused. “I suppose you
could just raise your right hand.”

“What?” Harry said blankly. “But I can raise my right hand whether or
not I—” Harry stopped, feeling rather stupid.

“Indeed,” said Professor Quirrell. “You can just as easily do it either
way. There is nothing you can do to convince me because I would know
that was exactly what you were trying to do. And if we are to be even
more precise, then while I suppose it is barely possible that perfectly
good people exist even though I have never met one, it is nonetheless
improbable that someone would be beaten for fifteen minutes and then
stand up and feel a great surge of kindly forgiveness for his attackers.
On the other hand it is less improbable that a young child would imagine
this as the role to play in order to convince his teacher and classmates
that he is not the next Dark Lord. The import of an act lies not in what
that act resembles on the surface, Mr Potter, but in the states of mind
which make that act more or less probable.”

Harry blinked. He’d just had the dichotomy between the
representativeness heuristic and the Bayesian definition of evidence
explained to him by a wizard.

“But then again,” said Professor Quirrell, “anyone can want to impress
their friends. That need not be Dark. So without it being any kind of
admission, Mr Potter, tell me honestly. What thought was in your mind at
the moment when you forbade any vengeance? Was that thought a true
impulse to forgiveness? Or was it an awareness of how your classmates
would see the act?”

Sometimes we make our own phœnix song.

But Harry didn’t say it out loud. It was clear that Professor Quirrell
wouldn’t believe him, and would probably respect him less for trying to
utter such a transparent lie.

After a few moments of silence, Professor Quirrell smiled with
satisfaction. “Believe it or not, Mr Potter,” said the professor, “you
need not fear me for having discovered your secret. I am not going to
tell you to give up on becoming the next Dark Lord. If I could turn back
the hands of time and somehow remove that ambition from the mind of my
child self, the self of this present time would not benefit from the
alteration. For as long as I thought that was my goal, it drove me to
study and learn and refine myself and become stronger. We become what we
are meant to be by following our desires wherever they lead. That is the
insight of Salazar. Ask me to show you to the library section which
holds those same books I read as a thirteen-year-old, and I will happily
lead the way.”

“For the love of crap,” Harry said, and sat down on the hard marble
floor, and then lay back on the floor, staring up at the distant arches
of the ceiling. It was as close as he could come to collapsing in
despair without hurting himself.

“Still too much indignation,” observed Professor Quirrell. Harry wasn’t
looking but he could hear the suppressed laughter in the voice.

Then Harry realized.

“Actually, I think I know what’s confusing you here,” Harry said. “That
was what I wanted to talk to you about, in fact. Professor Quirrell, I
think that what you’re seeing is my mysterious dark side.”

There was a pause.

“Your… dark side…”

Harry sat up. Professor Quirrell was regarding him with one of the
strangest expressions Harry had seen on anyone’s face, let alone anyone
as dignified as Professor Quirrell.

“It happens when I get angry,” Harry explained. “My blood runs cold,
everything gets cold, everything seems perfectly clear… In retrospect
it’s been with me for a while—in my first year of Muggle school, someone
tried to take away my ball during recess and I held it behind my back
and kicked him in the solar plexus which I’d read was a weak point, and
the other kids didn’t bother me after that. And I bit a maths teacher
when she wouldn’t accept my dominance. But it’s only just recently that
I’ve been under enough stress to notice that it’s an actual, you know,
mysterious dark side, and not just an anger management problem like the
school psychologist said. And I don’t have any super magical powers when
it happens, that was one of the first things I checked.”

Professor Quirrell rubbed his nose. “Let me think about this,” he said.

Harry waited in silence for a full minute. He used that time to stand
up, which was more difficult than he had expected.

“Well,” Professor Quirrell said after a while. “I suppose there was
something you could say that would convince me.”

“I have already guessed that my dark side is really just another part of
me and that the answer isn’t to never become angry but to learn to stay
in control by accepting it, I’m not dumb or anything and I’ve seen this
story enough times to know where it’s going, but it’s hard and you seem
like the person to help me.”

“Well… yes… very perspicacious of you, Mr Potter, I must say… that side
of you is, as you seem to have already surmised, your intent to kill,
which as you say is a part of you…”

“And needs to be trained,” Harry said, completing the pattern.

“And needs to be trained, yes.” That strange expression was still on
Professor Quirrell’s face. “Mr Potter, if you truly do not wish to be
the next Dark Lord, then what was the ambition which the Sorting Hat
tried to convince you to abandon, the ambition for which you were Sorted
into Slytherin?”

“I was Sorted into Ravenclaw!”

“Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, now with a much more usual-looking
dry smile, “I know you are accustomed to everyone around you being a
fool, but please do not mistake me for one of them. The likelihood that
the Sorting Hat would play its first prank in eight hundred years while
it was upon your head is so small as to not be worth considering. I
suppose it is barely possible that you snapped your fingers and invented
some simple and clever way to defeat the anti-tampering spells upon the
Hat, though I myself can think of no such method. But by far the most
probable explanation is that Dumbledore decided he was not happy with
the Hat’s choice for the Boy-Who-Lived. This is evident to anyone with
the tiniest smidgen of common sense, so your secret is safe at
Hogwarts.”

Harry opened his mouth, then closed it again with a feeling of complete
helplessness. Professor Quirrell was wrong, but wrong in such a
convincing way that Harry was starting to think that it simply was the
rational judgement given the evidence available to Professor Quirrell.
There were times, never predictable times but still sometimes, when you
would get improbable evidence and the best knowable guess would be
wrong. If you had a medical test that was only wrong one time in a
thousand, sometimes it would still be wrong anyway.

“Can I ask you never to repeat what I’m about to say?” said Harry.

“Absolutely,” said Professor Quirrell. “Consider me asked.”

Harry wasn’t a fool either. “Can I consider you to have said yes?”

“Very good, Mr Potter. You may indeed so consider.”

“Professor Quirrell—”

“I won’t repeat what you’re about to say,” Professor Quirrell said,
smiling.

They both laughed, then Harry turned serious again. “The Sorting Hat did
seem to think I was going to end up as a Dark Lord unless I went to
Hufflepuff,” Harry said. “But I don’t want to be one.”

“Mr Potter…” said Professor Quirrell. “Don’t take this the wrong way. I
promise you will not be graded on the answer. I only want to know your
own, honest reply. Why not?”

Harry had that helpless feeling again. Thou shalt not become a Dark Lord
was such an obvious theorem in his moral system that it was hard to
describe the actual proof steps. “Um, people would get hurt?”

“Surely you’ve wanted to hurt people,” said Professor Quirrell. “You
wanted to hurt those bullies today. Being a Dark Lord means that people
you want to hurt get hurt.”

Harry floundered for words and then decided to simply go with the
obvious. “First of all, just because I want to hurt someone doesn’t mean
it’s right—”

“What makes something right, if not your wanting it?”

“Ah,” Harry said, “preference utilitarianism.”

“Pardon me?” said Professor Quirrell.

“It’s the ethical theory that the good is what satisfies the preferences
of the most people—”

“No,” Professor Quirrell said. His fingers rubbed the bridge of his
nose. “I don’t think that’s quite what I was trying to say. Mr Potter,
in the end people all do what they want to do. Sometimes people give
names like ‘right’ to things they want to do, but how could we possibly
act on anything but our own desires?”

“Well, obviously,” Harry said. “I couldn’t act on moral considerations
if they lacked the power to move me. But that doesn’t mean my wanting to
hurt those Slytherins has the power to move me more than moral
considerations!”

Professor Quirrell blinked.

“Not to mention,” Harry said, “being a Dark Lord would mean that a lot
of innocent bystanders got hurt too!”

“Why does that matter to you?” Professor Quirrell said. “What have they
done for you?”

Harry laughed. “Oh, now that was around as subtle as Atlas Shrugged.”

“Pardon me?” Professor Quirrell said again.

“It’s a book that my parents wouldn’t let me read because they thought
it would corrupt me, so of course I read it anyway and I was offended
they thought I would fall for any traps that obvious. Blah blah blah,
appeal to my sense of superiority, other people are trying to keep me
down, blah blah blah.”

“So you’re saying I need to make my traps less obvious?” said Professor
Quirrell. He tapped a finger on his cheek, looking thoughtful. “I can
work on that.”

They both laughed.

“But to stay with the current question,” said Professor Quirrell, “what
have all these other people done for you?”

“Other people have done huge amounts for me!” Harry said. “My parents
took me in when my parents died because they were good people, and to
become a Dark Lord is to betray that!”

Professor Quirrell was silent for a time.

“I confess,” said Professor Quirrell quietly, “when I was your age, that
thought could not ever have come to me.”

“I’m sorry,” Harry said.

“Don’t be,” said Professor Quirrell. “It was long ago, and I resolved my
parental issues to my own satisfaction. So you are held back by the
thought of your parents’ disapproval? Does that mean that if they died
in an accident, there would be nothing left to stop you from—”

“No,” Harry said. “Just no. It is their impulse to kindness which
sheltered me. That impulse is not only in my parents. And that impulse
is what would be betrayed.”

“In any case, Mr Potter, you have not answered my original question,”
said Professor Quirrell finally. “What is your ambition?”

“Oh,” said Harry. “Um…” He organized his thoughts. “To understand
everything important there is to know about the universe, apply that
knowledge to become omnipotent, and use that power to rewrite reality
because I have some objections to the way it works now.”

There was a slight pause.

“Forgive me if this is a stupid question, Mr Potter,” said Professor
Quirrell, “but are you sure you did not just confess to wanting to be a
Dark Lord?”

“That’s only if you use your power for evil,” explained Harry. “If you
use the power for good, you’re a Light Lord.”

“I see,” Professor Quirrell said. He tapped his other cheek with a
finger. “I suppose I can work with that. But Mr Potter, while the scope
of your ambition is worthy of Salazar himself, how exactly do you
propose to go about it? Is step one to become a great fighting wizard,
or Head Unspeakable, or Minister of Magic, or—”

“Step one is to become a scientist.”

Professor Quirrell was looking at Harry as if he’d just turned into a
cat.

“A scientist,” Professor Quirrell said after a while.

Harry nodded.

“A scientist?” repeated Professor Quirrell.

“Yes,” Harry said. “I shall achieve my objectives through the power… of
Science!”

“A scientist!” said Professor Quirrell. There was genuine indignation on
his face, and his voice had grown stronger and sharper. “You could be
the best of all my students! The greatest fighting wizard to come out of
Hogwarts in five decades! I cannot picture you wasting your days in a
white lab coat doing pointless things to rats!”

“Hey!” said Harry. “There’s more to science than that! Not that there’s
anything wrong with experimenting on rats, of course. But science is how
you go about understanding and controlling the universe—”

“Fool,” said Professor Quirrell, in a voice of quiet, bitter intensity.
“You’re a fool, Harry Potter.” He passed a hand over his face, and when
that hand had passed, his face was calmer. “Or more likely you have not
yet found your true ambition. May I strongly recommend that you try to
become a Dark Lord instead? I will do anything I can to help as a matter
of public service.”

“You don’t like science,” Harry said slowly. “Why not?”

“Those fool Muggles will kill us all some day!” Professor Quirrell’s
voice had grown louder. “They will end it! End all of it!”

Harry was feeling a bit lost here. “What are we talking about here,
nuclear weapons?”

“Yes, nuclear weapons!” Professor Quirrell was almost shouting now.
“Even He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named never used those, perhaps because he
didn’t want to rule over a heap of ash! They never should have been
made! And it will only get worse with time!” Professor Quirrell was
standing up straight instead of leaning on his desk. “There are gates
you do not open, there are seals you do not breach! The fools who can’t
resist meddling are killed by the lesser perils early on, and the
survivors all know that there are secrets you do not share with anyone
who lacks the intelligence and the discipline to discover them for
themselves! Every powerful wizard knows that! Even the most terrible
Dark Wizards know that! And those idiot Muggles can’t seem to figure it
out! The eager little fools who discovered the secret of nuclear weapons
didn’t keep it to themselves, they told their fool politicians and now
we must live under the constant threat of annihilation!”

This was a rather different way of looking at things than Harry had
grown up with. It had never occurred to him that nuclear physicists
should have formed a conspiracy of silence to keep the secret of nuclear
weapons from anyone not smart enough to be a nuclear physicist. The
thought was intriguing, if nothing else. Would they have had secret
passwords? Would they have had masks?

(Actually, for all Harry knew, there were all sorts of incredibly
destructive secrets which physicists kept to themselves, and the secret
of nuclear weapons was the only one that had escaped into the wild. The
world would look the same to him either way.)

“I’ll have to think about that,” Harry said to Professor Quirrell. “It’s
a new idea to me. And one of the hidden secrets of science, passed down
from a few rare teachers to their grad students, is how to avoid
flushing new ideas down the toilet the instant you hear one you don’t
like.”

Professor Quirrell blinked again.

“Is there any sort of science you do approve of?” said Harry. “Medicine,
maybe?”

“Space travel,” said Professor Quirrell. “But the Muggles seem to be
dragging their feet on the one project which might have let wizardkind
escape this planet before they blow it up.”

Harry nodded. “I’m a big fan of the space programme too. At least we
have that much in common.”

Professor Quirrell looked at Harry. Something flickered in the
professor’s eyes. “I will have your word, your promise and your oath
never to speak of what follows.”

“You have it,” Harry said immediately.

“See to it that you keep your oath or you will not like the results,”
said Professor Quirrell. “I will now cast a rare and powerful spell, not
on you, but on the classroom around us. Stand still, so that you do not
touch the boundaries of the spell once it has been cast. You must not
interact with the magic which I am maintaining. Look only. Otherwise I
will end the spell.” Professor Quirrell paused. “And try not to fall
over.”

Harry nodded, puzzled and anticipatory.

Professor Quirrell raised his wand and said something that Harry’s ears
and mind couldn’t grasp at all, words that bypassed awareness and
vanished into oblivion.

The marble in a short radius around Harry’s feet stayed constant. All
the other marble of the floor vanished, the walls and ceilings vanished.

Harry stood on a small circle of white marble in the midst of an endless
field of stars, burning terribly bright and unwavering. There was no
Earth, no Moon, no Sun that Harry recognized. Professor Quirrell stood
in the same place as before, floating in the midst of the star-field.
The Milky Way was already visible as a great wash of light and it grew
brighter as Harry’s vision adjusted to the darkness.

The sight wrenched at Harry’s heart like nothing he had ever seen.

“Are we… in space…?”

“No,” said Professor Quirrell. His voice was sad, and reverent. “But it
is a true image.”

Tears came into Harry’s eyes. He wiped them away frantically, he would
not miss this for some stupid water blurring his vision.

The stars were no longer tiny jewels set in a giant velvet dome, as they
were in the night sky of Earth. Here there was no sky above, no
surrounding sphere. Only points of perfect light against perfect
blackness, an infinite and empty void with countless tiny holes through
which shone the brilliance from some unimaginable realm beyond.

In space, the stars looked terribly, terribly, terribly far away.

Harry kept on wiping his eyes, over and over.

“Sometimes,” Professor Quirrell said in a voice so quiet it almost
wasn’t there, “when this flawed world seems unusually hateful, I wonder
whether there might be some other place, far away, where I should have
been. I cannot seem to imagine what that place might be, and if I can’t
even imagine it then how can I believe it exists? And yet the universe
is so very, very wide, and perhaps it might exist anyway? But the stars
are so very, very far away. It would take a long, long time to get
there, even if I knew the way. And I wonder what I would dream about, if
I slept for a long, long time…”

Though it felt like sacrilege, Harry managed a whisper. “Please let me
stay here awhile.”

Professor Quirrell nodded, where he stood unsupported against the stars.

It was easy to forget the small circle of marble on which you stood, and
your own body, and become a point of awareness which might have been
still, or might have been moving. With all distances incalculable there
was no way to tell.

There was a time of no time.

And then the stars vanished, and the classroom returned.

“I’m sorry,” said Professor Quirrell, “but we’re about to have company.”

“It’s fine,” Harry whispered. “It was enough.” He would never forget
this day, and not because of the unimportant things that had happened
earlier. He would learn how to cast that spell if it was the last thing
he ever learned.

Then the heavy oaken doors of the classroom blasted off their hinges and
skittered across the marble floor with a high-pitched shriek.

“QUIRINUS! HOW DARE YOU!”

Like a vast thundercloud, an ancient and powerful wizard blew into the
room, a look of such incandescent rage upon his face that the stern look
he had earlier turned upon Harry seemed like nothing.

There was a wrench of disorientation in Harry’s mind as the part that
wanted to run away screaming from the scariest thing it had ever seen
ran away, rotating into place a part of him which could take the shock.

None of Harry’s facets were happy about having their star-gazing
interrupted. “Headmaster Albus Percival—” Harry started to say in icy
tones.

Wham. Professor Quirrell’s hand came down hard upon his desk.
“Mr Potter!” barked Professor Quirrell. “This is the Headmaster of
Hogwarts and you are a mere student! You will address him
appropriately!”

Harry looked at Professor Quirrell.

Professor Quirrell was giving Harry a stern glare.

Neither of them smiled.

Dumbledore’s long strides had come to a halt before where Harry stood in
front of the dais and Professor Quirrell stood by his desk. The
Headmaster stared in shock at both of them.

“I’m sorry,” Harry said in meekly polite tones. “Headmaster, thank you
for wanting to protect me, but Professor Quirrell did the right thing.”

Slowly, Dumbledore’s expression changed from something that would
vaporize steel into something merely angry. “I heard students saying
that this man had you abused by older Slytherins! That he forbade you to
defend yourself!”

Harry nodded. “He knew exactly what was wrong with me and he showed me
how to fix it.”

“Harry, what are you talking about?”

“I was teaching him how to lose,” Professor Quirrell said dryly. “It’s
an important life skill.”

It was apparent that Dumbledore still didn’t understand, but his voice
had lowered in register. “Harry…” he said slowly. “If there’s any threat
the Defence Professor has offered you to prevent you from complaining—”

You lunatic, after today of all days do you really think I—

“Headmaster,” Harry said, trying to look abashed, “what’s wrong with me
isn’t that I keep quiet about abusive professors.”

Professor Quirrell chuckled. “Not perfect, Mr Potter, but good enough
for your first day. Headmaster, did you stay long enough to hear about
the fifty-one points for Ravenclaw, or did you storm out as soon as you
heard the first part?”

A brief look of disconcertion crossed Dumbledore’s face, followed by
surprise. “Fifty-one points for Ravenclaw?”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “He wasn’t expecting them, but it seemed
appropriate. Tell Professor McGonagall that I think the story of what
Mr Potter went through to earn back the lost points will do just as well
to make her point. No, Headmaster, Mr Potter didn’t tell me anything.
It’s easy to see which part of today’s events are her work, just as I
know that the final compromise was your own suggestion. Though I wonder
how on Earth Mr Potter was able to gain the upper hand over both Snape
and you and then Professor McGonagall was able to gain the upper hand
over him.”

Somehow Harry managed to control his face. Was it that obvious to a real
Slytherin?

Dumbledore came closer to Harry, scrutinizing. “Your colour looks a
little off, Harry,” the old wizard said. He peered closely at Harry’s
face. “What did you have for lunch today?”

“What?” Harry said, his mind wobbling in sudden confusion. Why would
Dumbledore be asking about deep-fried lamb and thin-sliced broccoli when
that was just about the last probable cause of—

The old wizard straightened up. “Never mind, then. I think you’re fine.”

Professor Quirrell coughed, loudly and deliberately. Harry looked at the
professor, and saw that Professor Quirrell was staring sharply at
Dumbledore.

“Ah-hem!” Professor Quirrell said again.

Dumbledore and Professor Quirrell locked eyes, and something seemed to
pass between them.

“If you don’t tell him,” Professor Quirrell said then, “I will, even if
you fire me for it.”

Dumbledore sighed and turned back to Harry. “I apologize for invading
your mental privacy, Mr Potter,” the Headmaster said formally. “I had no
purpose except to determine if Professor Quirrell had done the same.”

What?

The confusion lasted just exactly as long as it took Harry to understand
what had just happened.

“You—!”

“Gently, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell. His face was hard,
however, as he stared at Dumbledore.

“Legilimency is sometimes mistaken for common sense,” said the
Headmaster. “But it leaves traces which another skilful Legilimens can
detect. That was all I looked for, Mr Potter, and I asked you an
irrelevant question to ensure you wouldn’t think about anything
important while I looked.”

“You should have asked first!”

Professor Quirrell shook his head. “No, Mr Potter, the Headmaster had
some justification for his concerns, and had he asked for permission you
would have thought of exactly those things you did not wish him to see.”
Professor Quirrell’s voice grew sharper. “I am rather more concerned,
Headmaster, that you saw no need to tell him afterwards!”

“You have now made it more difficult to confirm his mental privacy on
future occasions,” Dumbledore said. He favoured Professor Quirrell with
a cold look. “Was that your intention, I wonder?”

Professor Quirrell’s expression was implacable. “There are too many
Legilimens in this school. I insist that Mr Potter receive instruction
in Occlumency. Will you permit me to be his tutor?”

“Absolutely not,” Dumbledore said at once.

“I did not think so. Then since you have deprived him of my free
services, you will pay for Mr Potter’s tutoring by a licensed Occlumency
instructor.”

“Such services do not come cheaply,” Dumbledore said, looking at
Professor Quirrell in some surprise. “Although I do have certain
connections—”

Professor Quirrell shook his head firmly. “No. Mr Potter will ask his
account manager at Gringotts to recommend a neutral instructor. With
respect, Headmaster Dumbledore, after the events of this morning I must
protest you or your friends having access to Mr Potter’s mind. I must
also insist that the instructor have taken an Unbreakable Vow to reveal
nothing, and that he agree to be Obliviated of each session immediately
afterwards.”

Dumbledore was frowning. “Such services are extremely expensive, as you
well know, and I cannot help but wonder why you deem them necessary.”

“If it’s money that’s the problem,” Harry spoke up, “I have some ideas
for making large amounts of money quickly—”

“Thank you Quirinus, your wisdom is now quite evident and I am sorry for
disputing it. Your concern for Harry Potter does you credit, as well.”

“You’re welcome,” said Professor Quirrell. “I hope you will not object
if I go on making him a particular focus of my attentions.” Professor
Quirrell’s face was now very serious, and very still.

Dumbledore looked at Harry.

“It is my own wish also,” Harry said.

“So that’s how it is to be…” the old wizard said slowly. Something
strange passed across his face. “Harry… you must realize that if you
choose this man as your teacher and your friend, your first mentor, then
one way or another you will lose him, and the manner in which you lose
him may or may not allow you to ever get him back.”

That hadn’t occurred to Harry. But there was that jinx on the Defence
position… one which had apparently worked with perfect regularity for
decades…

“Probably,” said Professor Quirrell quietly, “but he will have the full
use of me while I last.”

Dumbledore sighed. “I suppose it is economical, at least, since as the
Defence Professor you’re already doomed in some unknown fashion.”

Harry had to work hard to suppress his expression as he realized what
Dumbledore had actually been implying.

“I will inform Madam Pince that Mr Potter is allowed to obtain books on
Occlumency,” said Dumbledore.

“There is preliminary training which you must do on your own,” said
Professor Quirrell to Harry. “And I do suggest that you hurry up on it.”

Harry nodded.

“I’ll take my leave of you then,” said Dumbledore. He nodded to both
Harry and Professor Quirrell, and departed, walking a bit slowly.

“Can you cast the spell again?” Harry said the moment Dumbledore was
gone.

“Not today,” said Professor Quirrell quietly, “and not tomorrow either,
I’m afraid. It takes a lot out of me to cast, though less to keep going,
and so I usually prefer to maintain it as long as possible. This time I
cast it on impulse. Had I thought, and realized we might be
interrupted—”

Dumbledore was now Harry’s least favourite person in the entire world.

They both sighed.

“Even if I only ever see it once,” Harry said, “I will never stop being
grateful to you.”

Professor Quirrell nodded.

“Have you heard of the Pioneer programme?” Harry said. “They were probes
that would fly by different planets and take pictures. Two of the probes
would end up on trajectories that took them out of the Solar System and
into interstellar space. So they put a golden plaque on the probes, with
a picture of a man, and a woman, and showing where to find our Sun in
the galaxy.”

Professor Quirrell was silent for a moment, then smiled. “Tell me,
Mr Potter, can you guess what thought went through my mind when I
finished assembling the thirty-seven items on the list of things I would
never do as a Dark Lord? Put yourself in my shoes—imagine yourself in my
place—and guess.”

Harry imagined himself looking over a list of thirty-seven things not to
do once he became a Dark Lord.

“You decided that if you had to follow the whole list all the time,
there wouldn’t be much point in becoming a Dark Lord in the first
place,” Harry said.

“Precisely,” said Professor Quirrell. He was grinning. “So I am going to
violate rule two—which was simply ‘don’t brag’—and tell you about
something I have done. I don’t see how the knowledge could do any harm.
And I strongly suspect you would have figured it out anyway, once we
knew each other well enough. Nonetheless… I shall have your oath never
to speak of what I am about to tell.”

“You have it!” Harry had a feeling this was going to be really good.

“I subscribe to a Muggle bulletin which keeps me informed of progress on
space travel. I didn’t hear about Pioneer 10 until they reported its
launch. But when I discovered that Pioneer 11 would also be leaving the
Solar System forever,” Professor Quirrell said, his grin the widest that
Harry had yet seen from him, “I sneaked into NASA, I did, and I cast a
lovely little spell on that lovely golden plaque which will make it last
a lot longer than it otherwise would.”

…

…

…

“Yes,” Professor Quirrell said, who now seemed to be standing around
fifty feet taller, “I thought that was how you might react.”

…

…

…

“Mr Potter?”

“…I can’t think of anything to say.”

“‘You win’ seems appropriate,” said Professor Quirrell.

“You win,” Harry said immediately.

“See?” said Professor Quirrell. “We can only imagine what giant heap of
trouble you would have landed in if you had been unable to say that.”

They both laughed.

A further thought occurred to Harry. “You didn’t add any extra
information to the plaque, did you?”

“Extra information?” said Professor Quirrell, sounding as if the idea
had never occurred to him before and he was quite intrigued.

Which made Harry rather suspicious, considering that it’d taken less
than a minute for Harry to think of it.

“Maybe you included a holographic message like in Star Wars?” said
Harry. “Or… hm. A portrait seems to store a whole human brain’s worth of
information… you couldn’t have added any extra mass to the probe, but
maybe you could’ve turned an existing part into a portrait of yourself?
Or you found a volunteer dying of a terminal illness, sneaked them into
NASA, and cast a spell to make sure their ghost ended up in the plaque—”

“Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice suddenly sharp, “a spell
requiring a human death would certainly be classified by the Ministry as
Dark Arts, regardless of circumstances. Students should not be heard
talking about such things.”

And the amazing thing about the way Professor Quirrell said it was how
perfectly it maintained plausible deniability. It had been said in
exactly the appropriate tone for someone who wasn’t willing to discuss
such things and thought students should steer away from them. Harry
honestly didn’t know whether Professor Quirrell was just waiting to talk
about it until after Harry had learned to protect his mind.

“Got it,” Harry said. “I won’t talk with anyone else about that idea.”

“Please be discreet about the whole matter, Mr Potter,” Professor
Quirrell said. “I prefer to go through my life without attracting public
notice. You will find nothing in the newspapers about Quirinus Quirrell
until I decided it was time for me to teach Defence at Hogwarts.”

That seemed a little sad, but Harry understood. Then Harry realized the
implications. “So just how much awesome stuff have you done that no-one
else knows about—”

“Oh, some,” said Professor Quirrell. “But I think that’s quite enough
for today, Mr Potter, I confess I am feeling a bit tired—”

“I understand. And thank you. For everything.”

Professor Quirrell nodded, but he was leaning harder on his desk.

Harry quickly took his leave.

21. Rationalization

E. Y.: Rowling is whoever does Rowling’s job.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

HERMIONE Granger had worried she was turning Bad.

The difference between Good and Bad was usually easy to grasp, she’d
never understood why other people had so much trouble. At Hogwarts,
“Good” was Professor Flitwick and Professor McGonagall and Professor
Sprout. “Bad” was Professor Snape and Professor Quirrell and Draco
Malfoy. Harry Potter… was one of those unusual cases where you couldn’t
tell just by looking. She was still trying to figure out where he
belonged.

But when it came to herself…

Hermione was having too much fun crushing Harry Potter.

She’d done better than him in every single class they’d taken. (Except
for broomstick riding, which was like gym class, it didn’t count.) She’d
got real House points almost every day of their first week, not for
weird heroic things, but smart things like learning spells quickly and
helping other students. She knew those kinds of House points were
better, and the best part was, Harry Potter knew it too. She could see
it in his eyes every time she won another real House point.

If you were Good, you weren’t supposed to enjoy winning this much.

It had started on the day of the train ride, though it had taken a while
for the whirlwind to sink in. It wasn’t until later that night that
Hermione had begun to realize just how much she’d let that boy walk all
over her.

Before she’d met Harry Potter she hadn’t had anyone she’d wanted to
crush. If someone wasn’t doing as well as her in class, it was her job
to help them, not rub it in. That was what it meant to be Good.

And now…

…now she was winning, Harry Potter was flinching every time she got
another House point, and it was so much fun, her parents had warned her
against drugs and she suspected this was more fun than that.

She’d always liked the smiles that teachers gave her when she did
something right. She’d always liked seeing the long row of ticks on a
perfectly answered test. But now when she did well in class she would
casually glance around and catch a glimpse of Harry Potter gritting his
teeth, and it made her want to burst into song like a Disney film.

That was Bad, wasn’t it?

Hermione had worried she was turning Bad.

And then a thought had come to her which wiped away all her fears.

She and Harry were getting into a Romance! Of course! Everyone knew what
it meant when a boy and a girl started fighting all the time. They were
courting one another! There was nothing Bad about that.

It couldn’t be that she just enjoyed beating the living scholastic
daylights out of the most famous student in the school, someone who was
in books and talked like books, the boy who had somehow vanquished the
Dark Lord and even crushed Professor Snape like a sad little bug, the
boy who was, as Professor Quirrell would have put it, dominant, over
everyone else in first-year Ravenclaw except for Hermione Granger who
was utterly squishing the Boy-Who-Lived in all his classes besides
broomstick riding.

Because that would have been Bad.

No. It was Romance. That was it. That was why they were fighting.

Hermione was glad she had figured this out in time for today, when Harry
would lose their book-reading contest, which the whole school knew
about, and she wanted to start dancing with the sheer overflowing joy of
it.

It was 2:45 p.m. on Saturday and Harry Potter had half of Bathilda
Bagshot’s A History of Magic left to read and she was staring at her
pocket watch as it ticked with dreadful slowness toward 2:47 p.m.

And the entire Ravenclaw common room was watching.

It wasn’t just the first-years, news had spread like spilled milk and
fully half of Ravenclaw was crowded into the room, squeezed into sofas
and leaning on bookcases and sitting on the arms of chairs. All six
prefects were there including the Head Girl of Hogwarts. Someone had
needed to cast an Air-Freshening Charm just so that there would be
enough oxygen. And the din of conversation had died into whispers which
had now faded into utter silence.

2:46 p.m.

The tension was unbearable. If it had been anyone else, anyone else, his
defeat would have been a foregone conclusion.

But this was Harry Potter, and you couldn’t rule out the possibility
that he would, sometime in the next few seconds, raise a hand and snap
his fingers.

With sudden terror she realized how Harry Potter might be able to do
exactly that. It would be just like him to have already finished reading
the second half of the book earlier…

Hermione’s vision began to swim. She tried to make herself breathe, and
found that she simply couldn’t.

Ten seconds left, and he still hadn’t raised his hand.

Five seconds left.

2:47 p.m.

Harry Potter carefully placed a bookmark into his book, closed it, and
laid it aside.

“I would like to note for the benefit of posterity,” said the
Boy-Who-Lived in a clear voice, “that I had only half a book left, and
that I ran into a number of unexpected delays—”

“You lost!” shrieked Hermione. “You did! You lost our contest!”

There was a collective exhalation as everyone started breathing again.

Harry Potter shot her a Look of Flaming Fire, but she was floating in a
halo of pure white happiness and nothing could touch her.

“Do you realize what kind of week I’ve had?” said Harry Potter. “Any
lesser being would have been hard-pressed to read eight Dr Seuss books!”

“You set the time limit.”

Harry’s Look of Flaming Fire grew even hotter. “I did not have any
logical way of knowing I’d have to save the entire school from Professor
Snape, or get beaten up in Defence class, and if I told you how I lost
all the time between 5 p.m. and dinner on Thursday you would think I was
insane—”

“Awww, it sounds like someone fell prey to the planning fallacy.”

Raw shock showed on Harry Potter’s face.

“Oh that reminds me, I finished reading the first batch of books you
lent me,” Hermione said with her best innocent look. A couple of them
had been hard books, too. She wondered how long it had taken him to
finish reading them.

“Someday,” said the Boy-Who-Lived, “when the distant descendants of Homo
sapiens are looking back over the history of the galaxy and wondering
how it all went so wrong, they will conclude that the original mistake
was when someone taught Hermione Granger how to read.”

“But you still lose,” said Hermione. She held a hand to her chin and
looked contemplative. “Now what exactly should you lose, I wonder?”

“What?”

“You lost the bet,” Hermione explained, “so you have to pay a forfeit.”

“I don’t remember agreeing to this!”

“Really?” said Hermione Granger. She put a thoughtful look on her face.
Then, as if the idea had only just then occurred to her, “We’ll take a
vote, then. Everyone in Ravenclaw who thinks Harry Potter has to pay up,
raise your hand!”

“What?” shrieked Harry Potter again.

He spun around and saw that he was surrounded by a sea of raised hands.

And if Harry Potter had looked more carefully, he would have noticed
that an awful lot of the onlookers seemed to be girls and that
practically every female in the room had their hand raised.

“Stop!” wailed Harry Potter. “You don’t know what she’s going to ask!
Don’t you realize what she’s doing? She’s getting you to make an advance
commitment now, and then the pressure of consistency will make you agree
with whatever she says afterwards!”

“Don’t worry,” said the prefect Penelope Clearwater. “If she asks for
something unreasonable, we can just change our minds. Right, everyone?”

And there were eager nods from all the girls whom Penelope Clearwater
had told about Hermione’s plan.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A silent figure quietly slipped through the chilled halls of the
Hogwarts dungeons. He was to be present in a certain room at 6:00 p.m.
to meet a certain someone, and if at all possible it was best to be
early, to show respect.

But when his hand turned the doorknob and opened the door into that
dark, silent, unused classroom, there was a silhouette already standing
there amid the rows of dusty old desks. A silhouette which held a small
green glowing rod, casting a pale light which hardly illuminated even he
who held it, let alone the surrounding room.

The light of the hallway died as the door closed and shut behind him,
and Draco’s eyes began the process of adjusting to the dim glow.

The silhouette slowly turned to behold him, revealing a shadowed face
only partially lit by the eerie green light.

Draco liked this meeting already. Keep the chill green light, make them
both taller, give them hoods and masks, move them from a classroom to a
graveyard, and it would be just like the start of half the stories his
father’s friends told about the Death Eaters.

“I want you to know, Draco Malfoy,” said the silhouette in tones of
deadly calm, “that I do not blame you for my recent defeat.”

Draco opened his mouth in unthinking protest, there was no possible
reason why he should be blamed—

“It was due, more than anything else, to my own stupidity,” continued
that shadowy figure. “There were many other things I could have done, at
any step along the way. You did not ask me to do exactly what I did. You
only asked for help. I was the one who unwisely chose that particular
method. But the fact remains that I lost the contest by half a book. The
actions of your pet idiot, and the favour you asked for, and, yes, my
own foolishness in going about it, caused me to lose time. More time
than you know. Time which, in the end, proved critical. The fact
remains, Draco Malfoy, that if you had not asked that favour, I would
have won. And not… instead… lost.”

Draco had already heard about Harry’s loss, and the forfeit Granger had
claimed from him. The news had spread faster than owls could have
carried it.

“I understand,” Draco said. “I’m sorry.” There was nothing else he could
say if he wanted Harry Potter to be friends with him.

“I am not asking for understanding or sorrow,” said the dark silhouette,
still with that deadly calm. “But I have just spent two full hours in
the presence of Hermione Granger, dressed in such clothing as was
provided me, visiting such fascinating places in Hogwarts as a tiny
burbling waterfall of what looked to me like snot, accompanied by a
number of other girls who insisted on such helpful activities as
strewing our path with Transfigured rose petals. I have been on a date,
scion of Malfoy. My first date. And when I call that favour due, you
will pay it.”

Draco nodded solemnly. Before arriving he had taken the wise precaution
of learning every available detail of Harry’s date, so that he could get
all of his hysterical laughing done before their appointed meeting time,
and would not commit a faux pas by giggling continuously until he lost
consciousness.

“Do you think,” Draco said, “that something sad ought to happen to the
Granger girl—”

“Spread the word in Slytherin that the Granger girl is mine and anyone
who meddles in my affairs will have their remains scattered over an area
wide enough to include twelve different spoken languages. And since I am
not in Gryffindor and I use cunning rather than immediate frontal
attacks, they should not panic if I am seen smiling at her.”

“Or if you’re seen on a second date?” Draco said, allowing just a tiny
note of skepticism into his voice.

“There will be no second date,” said the green-lit silhouette in a voice
so fearsome that it sounded, not only like a Death Eater, but like
Amycus Carrow that one time just before Father told him to stop it, he
wasn’t the Dark Lord.

Of course it was still a young boy’s high unbroken voice and when you
combined that with the actual words, well, it just didn’t work. If Harry
Potter did become the next Dark Lord some day, Draco would use a
Pensieve to store a copy of this memory somewhere safe, and Harry Potter
would never dare betray him.

“But let us talk of happier matters,” said the green-shadowed figure.
“Let us talk of knowledge and of power. Draco Malfoy, let us talk of
Science.”

“Yes,” said Draco. “Let us speak.”

Draco wondered how much of his own face could be seen, and how much was
in shadow, in that eerie green light.

And though Draco kept his face serious, there was a smile in his heart.

He was finally having a real grown-up conversation.

“I offer you power,” said the shadowy figure, “and I will tell you of
that power and its price. The power comes from knowing the shape of
reality and so gaining control over it. What you understand, you can
command, and that is power enough to walk upon the Moon. The price of
that power is that you must learn to ask questions of Nature, and far
more difficult, accept Nature’s answers. You will do experiments,
perform tests and see what happens. And you must accept the meaning of
those results when they tell you that you are mistaken. You will have to
learn how to lose, not to me, but to Nature. When you find yourself
arguing with reality, you will have to let reality win. You will find
this painful, Draco Malfoy, and I do not know if you are strong in that
way. Knowing the price, is it still your wish to learn the human power?”

Draco took a deep breath. He’d thought about this. And it was hard to
see how he could answer any other way. He’d been instructed to take
every avenue of friendship with Harry Potter. It was just learning, he
wasn’t promising to do anything. He could always stop the lessons at any
time…

There were certainly any number of things about the situation which made
it look like a trap, but in all honesty, Draco didn’t see how this could
go wrong.

Plus Draco did kind of want to rule the world.

“Yes,” said Draco.

“Excellent,” said the shadowy figure. “I have had something of a crowded
week, and it will take time to plan your curriculum—”

“I’ve got a lot of things I need to do myself to consolidate my power in
Slytherin,” said Draco, “not to mention homework. Maybe we should just
start in October?”

“Sounds sensible,” said the shadowy figure, “but what I meant to say is
that to plan your curriculum, I need to know what I will be teaching
you. Three thoughts come to me. The first is that I teach you of the
human mind and brain. The second option is that I teach you of the
physical universe, those arts which lie on the pathway to visiting the
Moon. This involves a great deal of numbers, but to a certain kind of
mind those numbers are more beautiful than anything else Science has to
teach. Do you like numbers, Draco?”

Draco shook his head.

“Then so much for that. You will learn your mathematics eventually, but
not right away, I think. The third option is that I teach you of
genetics and evolution and inheritance, what you would call blood—”

“That one,” said Draco.

The figure nodded. “I thought you might say as much. But I think it will
be the most painful path for you, Draco. What if your family and
friends, the blood purists, say one thing, and you find that the
experimental test says another?”

“Then I’ll figure out how to make the experimental test say the right
answer!”

There was a pause, as the shadowy figure stood there with its mouth open
for a short while.

“Um,” said the shadowy figure. “It doesn’t really work like that. That’s
what I was trying to warn you about here, Draco. You can’t make the
answer come out to be anything you like.”

“You can always make the answer come out your way,” said Draco. That had
been practically the first thing his tutors had taught him. “It’s just a
matter of finding the right arguments.”

“No,” said the shadowy figure, voice rising in frustration, “no, no, no!
Then you get the wrong answer and you can’t go to the Moon that way!
Nature isn’t a person, you can’t trick them into believing something
else, if you try to tell the Moon it’s made of cheese you can argue for
days and it won’t change the Moon! What you’re talking about is
rationalization, like starting with a sheet of paper, moving straight
down to the bottom line, using ink to write ‘and therefore, the Moon is
made of cheese’, and then moving back up to write all sorts of clever
arguments above. But either the Moon is made of cheese or it isn’t. The
moment you wrote the bottom line, it was already true or already false.
Whether or not the whole sheet of paper ends up with the right
conclusion or the wrong conclusion is fixed the instant you write down
the bottom line. If you’re trying to pick between two expensive trunks,
and you like the shiny one, it doesn’t matter what clever arguments you
come up with for buying it, the real rule you used to choose which trunk
to argue for was ‘pick the shiny one’, and however effective that rule
is at picking good trunks, that’s the kind of trunk you’ll get.
Rationality can’t be used to argue for a fixed side, its only possible
use is deciding which side to argue. Science isn’t for convincing anyone
that the blood purists are right. That’s politics! The power of science
comes from finding out the way Nature really is that can’t be changed by
arguing! What science can do is tell us how blood really works, how
wizards really inherit their powers from their parents, and whether
Muggle-borns are really weaker or stronger—”

“Stronger!” said Draco. He had been trying to follow this, a puzzled
frown on his face, he could see how it sort of made sense but it
certainly wasn’t like anything he’d ever heard before. And then Harry
Potter had said something Draco couldn’t possibly let pass. “You think
mudbloods are stronger?”

“I think nothing,” said the shadowy figure. “I know nothing. I believe
nothing. My bottom line is not yet written. I will figure out how to
test the magical strength of Muggle-borns, and the magical strength of
purebloods. If my tests tell me that Muggle-borns are weaker, I will
believe they are weaker. If my tests tell me that Muggle-borns are
stronger, I will believe they are stronger. Knowing this and other
truths, I will gain some measure of power—”

“And you expect me to believe whatever you say?” Draco demanded hotly.

“I expect you to perform the tests personally,” said the shadowy figure
quietly. “Are you afraid of what you will find?”

Draco stared at the shadowy figure for a while, his eyes narrowed. “Nice
trap, Harry,” he said. “I’ll have to remember that one, it’s new.”

The shadowy figure shook his head. “It’s not a trap, Draco. Remember, I
don’t know what we’ll find. But you do not understand the universe by
arguing with it or telling it to come back with a different answer next
time. When you put on the robes of a scientist you must forget all your
politics and arguments and factions and sides, silence the desperate
clingings of your mind, and wish only to hear the answer of Nature.” The
shadowy figure paused. “Most people can’t do it. That’s why this is
difficult. Are you sure you wouldn’t rather just learn about the brain?”

“And if I tell you I’d rather learn about the brain,” Draco said, his
voice now hard, “you’ll go around telling people that I was afraid of
what I’d find.”

“No,” said the shadowy figure. “I will do no such thing.”

“But you might do the same sort of tests yourself, and if you got the
wrong answer, I wouldn’t be there to say anything before you showed it
to someone else.” Draco’s voice was still hard.

“I would still ask you first, Draco,” the shadowy figure said quietly.

Draco paused. He hadn’t been expecting that, he’d thought he saw the
trap but… “You would?”

“Of course. How would I know who to blackmail or what we could ask from
them? Draco, I say again that this is not a trap I set for you. At least
not for you personally. If your politics were different, I would be
saying, what if the test shows that purebloods are stronger.”

“Really.”

“Yes! That’s the price anyone has to pay to become a scientist!”

Draco held up a hand. He had to think.

The shadowy, green-lit figure waited.

It didn’t take long to think about, though. If you discarded all the
confusing parts… then Harry Potter was planning to mess around with
something that could cause a gigantic political explosion, and it would
be insane to just walk away and let him do it on his own. “We’ll study
blood,” said Draco.

“Excellent,” said the figure, and smiled. “Congratulations on being
willing to ask the question.”

“Thanks,” Draco said, not quite managing to keep the irony out of his
voice.

“Hey, did you think going to the Moon was easy? Be glad this just
involves changing your mind sometimes, and not a human sacrifice!”

“Human sacrifice would be way easier!”

There was a slight pause, and then the figure nodded. “Fair point.”

“Look, Harry,” said Draco without much hope, “I thought the idea was to
take all the things that Muggles know, combine them with things that
wizards know, and become masters of both worlds. Wouldn’t it be a lot
easier to just study all the things that Muggles already found out, like
the Moon stuff, and use that power—”

“No,” said the figure with a sharp shake of his head, sending green
shadows moving around his nose and eyes. His voice had turned very grim.
“If you cannot learn the scientist’s art of accepting reality, then I
must not tell you what that acceptance has discovered. It would be like
a powerful wizard telling you of those gates which must not be opened,
and those seals which must not be broken, before you had proven your
intelligence and discipline by surviving the lesser perils.”

A chill went down Draco’s spine and he shuddered involuntarily. He knew
it had been visible even in the dim light. “All right,” said Draco. “I
understand.” Father had told him that many times. When a more powerful
wizard told you that you weren’t ready to know, you didn’t pry any
further if you wanted to live.

The figure inclined his head. “Indeed. But there is something else you
should understand. The first scientists, being Muggles, lacked your
traditions. In the beginning they simply did not comprehend the notion
of dangerous knowledge, and thought that all things known should be
spoken freely. When their searches turned dangerous, they told their
politicians of things that should have stayed secret—don’t look like
that, Draco, it wasn’t simple stupidity. They did have to be smart
enough to uncover the secret in the first place. But they were Muggles,
it was the first time they’d found anything really dangerous, and they
didn’t start out with a tradition of secrecy. There was a war going on,
and the scientists on one side worried that if they didn’t talk, the
scientists of the enemy country would tell their politicians first…” The
voice trailed off significantly. “They didn’t destroy the world. But it
was close. And we are not going to repeat that mistake.”

“Right,” Draco said, his voice now very firm. “We won’t. We’re wizards,
and studying science doesn’t make us Muggles.”

“As you say,” said the green-lit silhouette. “We will establish our own
Science, a magical Science, and that Science will have smarter
traditions from the very start.” The voice grew hard. “The knowledge I
share with you will be taught alongside the disciplines of accepting
truth, the level of this knowledge will be keyed to your progress in
those disciplines, and you will share that knowledge with no-one else
who has not learned those disciplines. Do you accept this?”

“Yes,” said Draco. What was he supposed to do, say no?

“Good. And what you discover for yourself, you will keep to yourself
unless you think that other scientists are ready to know it. What we do
share among ourselves, we will not tell the world unless we agree it is
safe for the world to know. And whatever our own politics and
allegiances, we will all punish any of our number who reveal dangerous
magics or give away dangerous weapons, no matter what sort of war is
going on. From this day onward, that will be the tradition and the law
of science among wizards. Are we agreed on that?”

“Yes,” said Draco. Actually this was starting to sound pretty
attractive. The Death Eaters had tried to take power by being scarier
than everyone else, and they hadn’t actually won yet. Maybe it was time
to try ruling using secrets instead. “And our group stays hidden for as
long as possible, and everyone in it has to agree to our rules.”

“Of course. Definitely.”

There was a very short pause.

“We’re going to need better robes,” said the shadowy figure, “with hoods
and so on—”

“I was just thinking that,” said Draco. “We don’t need whole new robes,
though, just cowled cloaks to put on. I have a friend in Slytherin,
she’ll take your measurements—”

“Don’t tell her what it’s for, though—”

“I’m not stupid!”

“And no masks for now, not when it’s just you and me—” said the shadowy
figure.

“Right! But later on we should have some sort of special mark that all
our servants have, the Mark of Science, like a snake eating the Moon on
their right arms—”

“It’s called a PhD and wouldn’t that make it too easy to identify our
people?”

“Huh?”

“I mean, what if someone is like ‘okay, now everyone pull up their robes
over their right arms’ and our guy is like ‘whoops, sorry, looks like
I’m a spy’—”

‘“Forget I said anything,” said Draco, sweat suddenly springing out all
over his body. He needed a distraction, fast—“And what do we call
ourselves? The Science Eaters?”

“No,” said the shadowy figure slowly. “That doesn’t sound right…”

Draco wiped his robed arm across his forehead, wiping away beads of
moisture. What had the Dark Lord been thinking? Father had said the Dark
Lord was smart!

“I’ve got it!” said the shadowy figure suddenly. “You won’t understand
yet, but trust me, it fits.”

Right now Draco would have accepted ‘Malfoy Munchers’ as long as it
changed the subject. “What is it?”

And standing amid the dusty desks in an unused classroom in the dungeons
of Hogwarts, the green-lit silhouette of Harry Potter spread his arms
dramatically and said, “This day shall mark the dawn of… the Bayesian
Conspiracy.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A silent figure trudged wearily through the halls of Hogwarts in the
direction of Ravenclaw.

Harry had gone straight from the meeting with Draco to dinner, and
stayed at dinner barely long enough to choke down a few fast gulps of
food before going off to bed.

It wasn’t even 7 p.m. yet, but it was well past bedtime for Harry. He’d
realized last night that he wouldn’t be able to use the Time-Turner on
Saturday until after the book-reading contest was already over. But he
could still use the Time-Turner on Friday night, and gain time that way.
So Harry had pushed himself to stay awake until 9 p.m. on Friday, when
the protective shell opened, and then used the four hours remaining on
the Time-Turner to spin back to 5 p.m. and collapse into sleep. He’d
woken up around 2 a.m. on Saturday morning, just as planned, and read
for the next twelve hours straight… and it still hadn’t been enough. And
now Harry would be going to sleep rather early for the next few days,
until his sleep cycle caught up again.

The portrait on the door asked Harry some dumb riddle meant for
eleven-year-olds that he answered without the words even passing through
his conscious mind, and then Harry staggered up the stairs to his dorm,
changed into his pyjamas and collapsed into bed.

And found that his pillow seemed rather lumpy.

Harry groaned. He sat up reluctantly, twisted in bed, and lifted up his
pillow.

This revealed a note, two golden Galleons, and a book titled Occlumency:
The Hidden Arte.

Harry picked up the note and read:

My, you do get yourself into trouble and quickly. Your father was no
match for you.

You have made a powerful enemy. Snape commands the loyalty, admiration,
and fear of all House Slytherin. You cannot trust any of that House now,
whether they come to you in friendly guise or fearsome.

From now on you must not meet Snape’s eyes. He is a Legilimens and can
read your mind if you do. I have enclosed a book which may help you
learn to protect yourself, though there is only so far you can get
without a tutor. Still you may hope to at least detect intrusion.

So that you may find some extra time in which to study Occlumency, I
have enclosed 2 Galleons, which is the price of answer sheets and
homework for the first-year History of Magic class (Professor Binns
having given the same tests and same assignments every year since he
died). Your newfound friends the Weasley twins should be able to sell
you a copy. It goes without saying that you must not get caught with it
in your possession.

Of Professor Quirrell I know little. He is a Slytherin and a Defence
Professor, and that is two marks against him. Consider carefully any
advice he gives you, and tell him nothing you do not wish known.

Dumbledore only pretends to be insane. He is extremely intelligent, and
if you continue to step into cupboards and vanish, he will certainly
deduce your possession of an invisibility cloak if he has not done so
already. Avoid him whenever possible, hide the Cloak of Invisibility
somewhere safe (not your pouch) any time you cannot avoid him, and step
with great care in his presence.

Please be more careful in the future, Harry Potter.

—Santa Claus

Harry stared at the note.

It did seem to be pretty good advice. Of course Harry wasn’t going to
cheat in History class even if they gave him a dead monkey for a
professor. But Severus’s Legilimency… whoever’d sent this note knew a
lot of important, secret things and was willing to tell Harry about
them. The note was still warning him against Dumbledore stealing the
Cloak but at this point Harry honestly had no clue if that was a bad
sign, it could just be an understandable mistake.

There seemed to be some sort of intrigue going on inside Hogwarts. Maybe
if Harry compared stories between Dumbledore and the note-sender, he
could work out a combined picture that would be accurate? Like if they
both agreed on something, then…

…whatever…

Harry stuffed everything into his pouch and turned up the Quieter and
pulled the cover over his head and died.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was Sunday morning and Harry was eating pancakes in the Great Hall,
sharp quick bites, glancing nervously at his watch every few seconds.

It was 8:02 a.m., and in precisely two hours and one minute, it would be
exactly one week since he’d seen the Weasleys and crossed over onto
Platform Nine-and-Three-Quarters.

And the thought had occurred to him… Harry didn’t know if this was a
valid way to think about the universe, he didn’t know anything any more,
but it seemed possible…

That…

Not enough interesting things had happened to him over the last week.

When he was done eating breakfast, Harry planned to go straight up to
his room and hide in the bottom level of his trunk and not talk to
anyone until 10:03 a.m.

And that was when Harry saw the Weasley twins walking toward him. One of
them was carrying something concealed behind his back.

He should scream and run away.

He should scream and run away.

Whatever this was… it could very well be…

…the grand finale…

He really should just scream and run away.

With a resigned feeling that the universe would come and get him anyway,
Harry continued slicing at the pancake with his fork and knife. He
couldn’t muster the energy. That was the sad truth. Harry knew now how
people felt when they were tired of running, tired of trying to escape
fate, and they just fell to the ground and let the horrifically
be-fanged and tentacled demons of the darkest abyss drag them off to
their unspeakable destiny.

The Weasley twins drew closer.

And yet closer.

Harry ate another bite of pancake.

The Weasley twins arrived, grinning brightly.

“Hello, Fred,” Harry said dully. One of the twins nodded. “Hello,
George.” The other twin nodded.

“You sound tired,” said George.

“You should cheer up,” said Fred.

“Look what we got you!”

And George took, from behind Fred’s back—

A cake with twelve flaming candles.

There was a pause, as the Ravenclaw table stared at them.

“That’s not right,” said someone. “Harry Potter was born on the
thirty-first of Jul—”

“HE IS COMING,” said a huge hollow voice that cut through all
conversation like a sword of ice. “THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE
VERY—”

Dumbledore had leapt out of his throne and run straight over the Head
Table and seized hold of the woman speaking those awful words, Fawkes
had appeared in a flash, and all three of them vanished in a crack of
fire.

There was a shocked pause…

…followed by heads turning in the direction of Harry Potter.

“I didn’t do it,” Harry said in a tired voice.

“That was a prophecy!” someone at the table hissed. “And I bet it’s
about you!”

Harry sighed.

He stood up from his seat, raised his voice, and said very loudly over
the conversations that were starting up, “It’s not about me! Obviously!
I’m not coming here, I’m already here!”

Harry sat back down again.

The people who had been looking at him turned away again.

Someone else at the table said, “Then who is it about?”

And with a dull, leaden sensation, Harry realized who wasn’t already at
Hogwarts.

Call it a wild guess, but Harry had a feeling the undead Dark Lord would
be showing up one of these days.

The conversation continued on around him.

“Not to mention, tear apart the very what?”

“I thought I heard Trelawney start to say something with an ‘S’ just
before the Headmaster grabbed her.”

“Like… soul? Sun?”

“If someone’s going to tear apart the Sun we’re really in trouble!”

That seemed rather unlikely to Harry, unless the world contained scary
things which had heard of David Criswell’s ideas about star lifting.

“So,” Harry said in tired tones, “this happens every Sunday breakfast,
does it?”

“No,” said a student who might have been in his seventh year, frowning
grimly. “It doesn’t.”

Harry shrugged. “Whatever. Anyone want some birthday cake?”

“But it’s not your birthday!” said the same student who’d objected last
time.

That was the cue for Fred and George to start laughing, of course.

Even Harry managed a weary smile.

As the first slice was served to him, Harry said, “I’ve had a really
long week.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And Harry was sitting in the cavern level of his trunk, slid shut and
locked so no-one could get in, a blanket pulled over his head, waiting
for the week to be over.

10:01.

10:02.

10:03, but just to be sure…

10:04 and the first week was done.

Harry breathed a sigh of relief, and gingerly pulled the blanket off of
his head.

A few moments later, he had emerged into the bright sunlit air of his
dorm.

Shortly after, and he was in the Ravenclaw common room. A few people
looked at him, but no-one said anything or tried to talk to him.

Harry found a nice wide writing desk, pulled back a comfortable chair,
and sat down. From his pouch he drew a sheet of paper and a pencil.

Mum and Dad had told Harry in no uncertain terms that while they
understood his enthusiasm for leaving home and getting away from his
parents, he was to write them every week without fail, just so that they
knew he was alive, unharmed, and not in prison.

Harry stared down at the blank sheet of paper. Let’s see…

After leaving his parents at the train station, he’d…

…become acquainted with a boy raised by Darth Vader, become friends with
the three most infamous pranksters in Hogwarts, met Hermione, then
there’d been the Incident with the Sorting Hat… Monday he’d been given a
time machine to treat his sleep disorder, got a legendary invisibility
cloak from an unknown benefactor, rescued seven Hufflepuffs by staring
down five scary older boys one of whom had threatened to break his
finger, realized that he possessed a mysterious dark side, learned to
cast Frigideiro in Charms class, and started his rivalry with Hermione…
Tuesday had introduced Astronomy taught by Professor Aurora Sinistra who
was nice, and History of Magic taught by a ghost who ought to be
exorcised and replaced with a tape recorder… Wednesday, he’d been
pronounced the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom… Thursday, let’s
not even think about Thursday… Friday, the Incident in Potions Class,
followed by his blackmailing the Headmaster, followed by the Defence
Professor having him beaten up in class, followed by the Defence
Professor turning out to be the most awesome human being who still
walked the face of the Earth… Saturday he’d lost a bet and gone on his
first date and started redeeming Draco… and then this morning Professor
Trelawney’s unheard prophecy might or might not indicate that an
immortal Dark Lord was about to attack Hogwarts.

Harry mentally organized his material, and started writing.

Dear Mum and Dad:

Hogwarts is lots of fun. I learned how to violate the Second Law of
Thermodynamics in Charms class, and I met a girl named Hermione Granger
who reads faster than I do.

I’d better leave it at that.

Your loving son,

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.

2. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and the Professor’s Games

22. The Scientific Method

E. Y.: The key to strategy is not to choose a path to J. K. Rowling, but
to choose so that all paths lead to a J. K. Rowling.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A small study room, near but not in the Ravenclaw dorm, one of the many
many unused rooms of Hogwarts. Grey stone the floors, red brick the
walls, dark stained wood the ceiling, four glowing glass globes set into
the four walls of the room. A circular table that looked like a wide
slab of black marble set on thick black marble legs for columns, but
which had proved to be very light (weight and mass both) and wasn’t
difficult to pick up and move around if necessary. Two comfortably
cushioned chairs which had seemed at first to be locked to the floor in
inconvenient places, but which would, the two of them had finally
discovered, scoot around to where you stood as soon as you leaned over
in a posture that looked like you were about to sit down.

There also seemed to be a number of bats flying around the room.

That was where, future historians would one day record—if the whole
project ever actually amounted to anything—the scientific study of magic
had begun, with two young first-year Hogwarts students.

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, theorist.

And Hermione Jean Granger, experimenter and test subject.

Harry was doing better in classes now, at least the classes he
considered interesting. He’d read more books, and not books for
eleven-year-olds either. He’d practised Transfiguration over and over
during one of his extra hours every day, taking the other hour for
beginning Occlumency. He was taking the worthwhile classes seriously,
not just turning in his homework every day, but using his free time to
learn more than was required, to read other books beyond the given
textbooks, looking to master the subject and not just memorize a few
test answers, to excel. You didn’t see that much outside Ravenclaw. And
now even within Ravenclaw, his only remaining competitors were Padma
Patil (whose parents came from a non-English-speaking culture and thus
had raised her with an actual work ethic), Anthony Goldstein (out of a
certain tiny ethnic group that won 25% of the Nobel Prizes), and of
course, striding far above everyone like a Titan strolling through a
pack of puppies, Hermione Granger.

To run this particular experiment you needed the test subject to learn
sixteen new spells, on their own, without help or correction. That meant
the test subject was Hermione. Period.

It should be mentioned at this point that the bats flying around the
room were not glowing.

Harry was having trouble accepting the implications of this.

“Oogely boogely!” Hermione said again.

Again, at the tip of Hermione’s wand, a bat abruptly appeared. One
moment, empty air. The next moment, bat. Its wings seemed to be already
moving in the instant when it appeared.

And it still wasn’t glowing.

“Can I stop now?” said Hermione.

“Are you sure,” Harry said through what seemed to be a block in his
throat, “that maybe with a bit more practice you couldn’t get it to
glow?” He was violating the experimental procedure he’d written down
beforehand, which was a sin, and he was violating it because he didn’t
like the results he was getting, which was a mortal sin, you could go to
Science Hell for that, but it didn’t seem to be mattering anyway.

“What did you change this time?” Hermione said, sounding a little weary.

“The durations of the oo, eh, and ee sounds. It’s supposed to be 3 to 2
to 2, not 3 to 1 to 1.”

“Oogely boogely!” said Hermione.

The bat materialized with only one wing and spun pathetically to the
floor, flopping around in a circle on the grey stone.

“Now what is it really?” said Hermione.

“3 to 2 to 1.”

“Oogely boogely!”

This time the bat didn’t have any wings at all and fell with a plop like
a dead mouse.

“3 to 1 to 2.”

And lo the bat did materialize and it did fly up at once toward the
ceiling, healthy and glowing a bright green.

Hermione nodded in satisfaction. “Okay, what next?”

There was a long pause.

“Seriously? You seriously have to say Oogely boogely with the duration
of the oo, eh, and ee sounds having a ratio of 3 to 1 to 2, or the bat
won’t glow? Why? Why? For the love of all that is sacred, why?”

“Why not?”

“AAAAAAAAARRRRRRGHHHH!”

Thud. Thud. Thud.

Harry had thought about the nature of magic for a while, and then
designed a series of experiments based on the premise that virtually
everything wizards believed about magic was wrong.

You couldn’t really need to say ‘Wingardium Leviosa’ in exactly the
right way in order to levitate something, because, come on, ‘Wingardium
Leviosa’? The universe was going to check that you said ‘Wingardium
Leviosa’ in exactly the right way and otherwise it wouldn’t make the
quill float?

No. Obviously no, once you thought about it seriously. Someone, quite
possibly an actual preschool child, but at any rate some
English-speaking magic-user, who thought that ‘Wingardium Leviosa’
sounded all flappy and floaty, had originally spoken those words while
casting the spell for the first time. And then told everyone else it was
necessary.

But (Harry had reasoned) it didn’t have to be that way, it wasn’t built
into the universe, it was built into you.

There was an old story passed down among scientists, a cautionary tale,
the story of Blondlot and the N-Rays.

Shortly after the discovery of X-Rays, an eminent French physicist named
Prosper-René Blondlot—who had been first to measure the speed of radio
waves and show that they propagated at the speed of light—had announced
the discovery of an amazing new phenomenon, N-Rays, which would induce a
faint brightening of a screen. You had to look hard to see it, but it
was there. N-Rays had all sorts of interesting properties. They were
bent by aluminium and could be focused by an aluminium prism into
striking a treated thread of cadmium sulphide, which would then glow
faintly in the dark…

Soon dozens of other scientists had confirmed Blondlot’s results,
especially in France.

But there were still other scientists, in England and Germany, who said
they weren’t quite sure they could see that faint glow.

Blondlot had said they were probably setting up the machinery wrong.

One day Blondlot had given a demonstration of N-Rays. The lights had
turned out, and his assistant had called off the brightening and
darkening as Blondlot performed his manipulations.

It had been a normal demonstration, all the results going as expected.

Even though an American scientist named Robert Wood had quietly stolen
the aluminium prism from the centre of Blondlot’s mechanism.

And that had been the end of N-Rays.

Reality, Philip K. Dick had once said, is that which, when you stop
believing in it, doesn’t go away.

Blondlot’s sin had been obvious in retrospect. He shouldn’t have told
his assistant what he was doing. Blondlot should have made sure the
assistant didn’t know what was being tried or when it was being tried,
before asking him to describe the screen’s brightness. It could have
been that simple.

Nowadays it was called “blinding” and it was one of the things modern
scientists took for granted. If you were doing a psychology experiment
to see whether people got angrier when they were hit over the head with
red truncheons than with green truncheons, you didn’t get to look at the
subjects yourself and decide how “angry” they were. You would snap
photos of them after they’d been hit with the truncheon, and send the
photos off to a panel of raters, who would rate on a scale of 1 to 10
how angry each person looked, obviously without knowing what colour of
truncheon they’d been hit with. Indeed there was no good reason to tell
the raters what the experiment was about, at all. You certainly wouldn’t
tell the experimental subjects that you thought they ought to be angrier
when hit by red truncheons. You’d just offer them 20 pounds, lure them
into a test room, hit them with a truncheon, colour randomly assigned of
course, and snap the photo. In fact the truncheon-hitting and
photo-snapping would be done by an assistant who hadn’t been told about
the hypothesis, so he couldn’t look expectant, hit harder, or snap the
photo at just the right time.

Blondlot had destroyed his reputation with the sort of mistake that
would get a failing grade and probably derisive laughter from the T.A.
in a first-year undergraduate course on experimental design… in 1991.

But this had been a bit longer ago, in 1904, and so it had taken months
before Robert Wood had formulated the obvious alternative hypothesis and
figured out how to test it, and dozens of other scientists had been
sucked in.

More than two centuries after science had got started. That late in
scientific history, it still hadn’t been obvious.

Which made it entirely plausible that in the tiny wizarding world, where
science didn’t seem much known at all, no-one had ever tried the first,
the simplest, the most obvious thing that any modern scientist would
think to check.

The books were full of complicated instructions for all the things you
had to do exactly right in order to cast a spell. And, Harry had
hypothesized, the process of obeying those instructions, of checking
that you were following them correctly, probably did do something. It
forced you to concentrate on the spell. Being told to just wave your
wand and wish probably wouldn’t work as well. And once you believed the
spell was supposed to work a certain way, once you had practised it that
way, you might not be able to convince yourself that it could work any
other way…

…if you did the simple but wrong thing, and tried to test alternative
forms yourself.

But what if you didn’t know what the original spell had been like?

What if you gave Hermione a list of spells she hadn’t studied yet, taken
from a book of silly prank spells in the Hogwarts library, and some of
those spells had the correct and original instructions, while others had
one changed gesture, one changed word? What if you kept the instructions
constant, but told her that a spell supposed to create a red worm was
supposed to create a blue worm instead?

Well, in that case, it had turned out…

…Harry was having trouble believing his results here…

…if you told Hermione to say “Oogely boogely” with the vowel durations
in the ratio of 3 to 1 to 1, instead of the correct ratio of 3 to 1 to
2, you still got the bat but it wouldn’t glow any more.

Not that belief was irrelevant here. Not that only the words and wand
movements mattered.

If you gave Hermione completely incorrect information about what a spell
was supposed to do, it would stop working.

If you didn’t tell her at all what the spell was supposed to do, it
would stop working.

If she knew in very vague terms what the spell was supposed to do, or
she was only partially wrong, then the spell would work as originally
described in the book, not the way she’d been told it should.

Harry was, at this moment, literally banging his head against the brick
wall. Not hard. He didn’t want to damage his precious brains. But if he
didn’t have some outlet for his frustration, he would spontaneously
catch on fire.

Thud. Thud. Thud.

It seemed the universe actually did want you to say ‘Wingardium Leviosa’
and it wanted you to say it in a certain exact way and it didn’t care
what you thought the pronunciation should be any more than it cared how
you felt about gravity.

WHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY?

The worst part of it was the smug, amused look on Hermione’s face.

Hermione had not been okay with sitting around obediently following
Harry’s instructions without being told why.

So Harry had explained to her what they were testing.

Harry had explained why they were testing it.

Harry had explained why probably no wizard had tried it before them.

Harry had explained that he was actually fairly confident of his
prediction.

Because, Harry had said, there was no way that the universe actually
wanted you to say ‘Wingardium Leviosa’.

Hermione had pointed out that this was not what her books said. Hermione
had asked if Harry really thought he was smarter, at eleven years old
and just over a month into his Hogwarts education, than all the other
wizards in the world who disagreed with him.

Harry had said the following exact words:

“Of course.”

Now Harry was staring at the red brick directly in front of him and
contemplating how hard he would have to hit his head in order to give
himself a concussion that would interfere with long-term memory
formation and prevent him from remembering this later. Hermione wasn’t
laughing, but he could feel her intent to laugh radiating out from
behind him like a dreadful pressure on his skin, sort of like knowing
you were being stalked by a serial killer only worse.

“Say it,” Harry said.

“I wasn’t going to,” said the kindly voice of Hermione Granger. “It
didn’t seem nice.”

“Just get it over with,” said Harry.

“Okay! So you gave me this whole long lecture about how hard it was to
do basic science and how we might need to stay on the problem for
thirty-five years, and then you went and expected us to make the
greatest discovery in the history of magic in the first hour we were
working together. You didn’t just hope, you really expected it. You’re
silly.”

“Thank you. Now—”

“I’ve read all the books you gave me and I still don’t know what to call
that. Overconfidence? Planning fallacy? Super duper Lake Wobegon effect?
They’ll have to name it after you. Harry Bias.”

“All right!”

“But it is cute. It’s such a boy thing to do.”

“Drop dead.”

“Aw, you say the most romantic things.”

Thud. Thud. Thud.

“So what’s next?” said Hermione.

Harry rested his head against the bricks. His forehead was starting to
hurt where he’d been banging it. “Nothing. I have to go back and design
different experiments.”

Over the last month, Harry had carefully worked out, in advance, a
course of experimentation for them that would have lasted until
December.

It would have been a great set of experiments if the very first test had
not falsified the basic premise.

Harry could not believe he had been this dumb.

“Let me correct myself,” said Harry. “I need to design one new
experiment. I’ll let you know when we’ve got it, and we’ll do it, and
then I’ll design the next one. How does that sound?”

“It sounds like someone wasted a whole lot of effort.”

Thud. Ow. He’d done that a bit harder than he’d planned.

“So,” said Hermione. She was leaning back in her chair and the smug look
was back on her face. “What did we discover today?”

“I discovered,” said Harry through gritted teeth, “that when it comes to
doing truly basic research on a genuinely confusing problem where you
have no clue what’s going on, my books on scientific methodology aren’t
worth crap—”

“Language, Mr Potter! Some of us are innocent young girls!”

“Fine. But if my books were worth a carp, that’s a kind of fish not
anything bad, they would have given me the following important piece of
advice: When there’s a confusing problem and you’re just starting out
and you have a falsifiable hypothesis, go test it. Find some simple,
easy way of doing a basic check and do it right away. Don’t worry about
designing an elaborate course of experiments that would make a grant
proposal look impressive to a funding agency. Just check as fast as
possible whether your ideas are false before you start investing huge
amounts of effort in them. How does that sound for a moral?”

“Mmm… okay,” said Hermione. “But I was also hoping for something like
‘Hermione’s books aren’t worthless. They’re written by wise old wizards
who know way more about magic than I do. I should pay attention to what
Hermione’s books say.’ Can we have that moral too?”

Harry’s jaw seemed to be clenched too tightly to let any words out, so
he just nodded.

“Great!” Hermione said. “I liked this experiment. We learned a lot from
it and it only took me an hour or so.”

“AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the dungeons of Slytherin.

An unused classroom lit with eerie green light, much brighter this time
and coming from a small crystal globe with a temporary enchantment, but
eerie green light nonetheless, casting strange shadows from the dusty
desks.

Two boy-sized figures in cowled grey cloaks (no masks) had entered in
silence, and sat down in two chairs opposite the same desk.

It was the second meeting of the Bayesian Conspiracy.

Draco Malfoy hadn’t been sure if he should look forward to it or not.

Harry Potter, judging by the expression on his face, didn’t seem to have
any doubts on the appropriate mood.

Harry Potter looked like he was ready to kill someone.

“Hermione Granger,” said Harry Potter, just as Draco was opening his
mouth. “Don’t ask.”

He couldn’t have gone on another date, could he? thought Draco, but that
didn’t make any sense.

“Harry,” said Draco, “I’m sorry but I have to ask this anyway, did you
really order the mudblood girl an expensive mokeskin pouch for her
birthday?”

“Yes, I did. You’ve already worked out why, of course.”

Draco reached up and raked fingers through his hair in frustration, his
cowl brushing the back of his hand. He hadn’t been quite sure why, but
now he couldn’t say so. And Slytherin knew he was courting Harry Potter,
he’d made it obvious enough in Defence class. “Harry,” said Draco,
“people know I’m friends with you, they don’t know about the Conspiracy
of course, but they know we’re friends, and it makes me look bad when
you do that sort of thing.”

Harry Potter’s face tightened. “Anyone in Slytherin who can’t understand
the concept of acting nice toward people you don’t actually like should
be ground up and fed to pet snakes.”

“There are a lot of people in Slytherin who don’t,” Draco said, his
voice serious. “Most people are stupid, and you have to look good in
front of them anyway.” Harry Potter had to understand that if he ever
wanted to get anywhere in life.

“What do you care what other people think? Are you really going to live
your life needing to explain everything you do to the dumbest idiots in
Slytherin, letting them judge you? I’m sorry, Draco, but I’m not
lowering my cunning plots to the level of what the dumbest Slytherins
can understand, just because it might make you look bad otherwise. Not
even your friendship is worth that. It would take all the fun out of
life. Tell me you haven’t ever thought the same thing when someone in
Slytherin is being too stupid to breathe, that it’s beneath the dignity
of a Malfoy to have to pander to them.”

Draco genuinely hadn’t. Ever. Pandering to idiots was like breathing,
you did it without thinking about it.

“Harry,” Draco said at last. “Just doing whatever you want, without
worrying about how it looks, isn’t smart. The Dark Lord worried about
how he looked! He was feared and hated, and he knew exactly what sort of
fear and hate he wanted to create. Everyone has to worry about what
other people think.”

The cowled figure shrugged. “Perhaps. Remind me sometime to tell you
about something called Asch’s Conformity Experiment, you might find it
quite amusing. For now I’ll just note that it’s dangerous to worry about
what other people think on instinct, because you actually care, not as a
matter of cold-blooded calculation. Remember, I was beaten and bullied
by older Slytherins for fifteen minutes, and afterwards I stood up and
graciously forgave them. Just like the good and virtuous Boy-Who-Lived
ought to do. But my cold-blooded calculations, Draco, tell me that I
have no use for the dumbest idiots in Slytherin, since I don’t own a pet
snake. So I have no reason to care what they think about how I conduct
my duel with Hermione Granger.”

Draco did not clench his fists in frustration. “She’s just some
mudblood,” Draco said, keeping his voice calm, rather than shouting. “If
you don’t like her, push her down the stairs.”

“Ravenclaw would know—”

“Have Pansy Parkinson push her down the stairs! You wouldn’t even have
to manipulate her, offer her a Sickle and she’d do it!”

“I would know! Hermione beat me in a book-reading contest, she’s getting
better grades than me, I have to defeat her with my brain or it doesn’t
count!”

“She’s just a mudblood! Why do you respect her that much?”

“She’s a power among Ravenclaws! Why do you care what some powerless
idiot in Slytherin thinks?”

“It’s called politics! And if you can’t play it you can’t have power!”

“Walking on the moon is power! Being a great wizard is power! There are
kinds of power that don’t require me to spend the rest of my life
pandering to morons!”

Both of them stopped, and, in almost perfect unison, began taking deep
breaths to calm themselves.

“Sorry,” Harry Potter said after a few moments, wiping sweat from his
forehead. “Sorry, Draco. You’ve got a lot of political power and it
makes sense for you to keep it. You should be calculating what Slytherin
thinks. It’s an important game and I shouldn’t have insulted it. But you
can’t ask me to lower the level of my game in Ravenclaw, just so that
you don’t look bad by associating with me. Tell Slytherin you’re
gritting your teeth while you pretend to be my friend.”

That was exactly what Draco had told Slytherin, and he still wasn’t sure
whether it was true.

“Anyway,” Draco said. “Speaking of your image. I’m afraid I’ve got some
bad news. Rita Skeeter heard some of the stories about you and she’s
been asking questions.”

Harry Potter raised his eyebrows. “Who?”

“She writes for the Daily Prophet,” Draco said. He tried to keep the
worry out of his voice. The Daily Prophet was one of Father’s primary
tools, he used it like a wizard’s wand. “That’s the newspaper people
actually pay attention to. Rita Skeeter writes about celebrities, and as
she puts it, uses her quill to puncture their over-inflated reputations.
If she can’t find any rumours about you, she’ll just make up her own.”

“I see,” said Harry Potter. His green-lit face looked very thoughtful
beneath the cowl.

Draco hesitated before saying what he had to say next. By now someone
had certainly reported to Father that he was courting Harry Potter, and
Father would also know that Draco hadn’t written home about it, and
Father would understand that Draco didn’t think he could actually keep
it a secret, which sent a clear message that Draco was practising his
own game now but still on Father’s side, since if Draco had been tempted
away, he would have been sending false reports.

It followed that Father had probably anticipated what Draco was about to
say next.

Playing the game with Father for real was a rather unnerving sensation.
Even if they were on the same side. It was, on the one hand,
exhilarating, but Draco also knew that in the end it would turn out that
Father had played the game better. There was no other way it could
possibly go.

“Harry,” Draco finally said. “This isn’t a suggestion. This isn’t my
advice. Just the way it is. My father could almost certainly quash that
article. But it would cost you.”

That Father had been expecting Draco to tell Harry Potter exactly that
was not something Draco said out loud. Harry Potter would work it out on
his own, or not.

But instead Harry Potter shook his head, smiling beneath the cowl. “I
have no intention of trying to quash Rita Skeeter.”

Draco didn’t even try to keep the incredulity out of his voice. “You
can’t tell me you don’t care what the newspaper says about you!”

“I care less than you might think,” said Harry Potter. “But I have my
own ways of dealing with the likes of Skeeter. I don’t need Lucius’s
help.”

A worried look came over Draco’s face before he could stop it. Whatever
Harry Potter was about to do next, it would be something Father wasn’t
expecting, and Draco was feeling very nervous about where that might
lead.

Draco also realized that his hair was getting sweaty underneath the
cowl. He’d never actually worn one of those before, and hadn’t realized
that the Death Eaters’ cloaks probably had things like Cooling Charms.

Harry Potter wiped some sweat from his forehead again, grimaced, took
out his wand, pointed it upward, took a deep breath, and said
“Frigideiro!”

Moments later Draco felt the cold draft.

“Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro!”

Then Harry Potter lowered the wand, though his hand seemed a bit shaky,
and put it back into his robes.

The whole room seemed perceptibly cooler. Draco could have done that
too, but still, not bad.

“So,” Draco said. “Science. You’re going to tell me about blood.”

“We’re going to find out about blood,” Harry Potter said. “By doing
experiments.”

“All right,” Draco said. “What sort of experiments?”

Harry Potter smiled evilly beneath his cowl, and said, “You tell me.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco had heard of something called the Socratic Method, which was
teaching by asking questions (named after an ancient philosopher who had
been too smart to be a real Muggle and hence had been a disguised
pureblood wizard). One of his tutors had used Socratic teaching a lot.
It had been annoying but effective.

Then there was the Potter Method, which was insane.

To be fair, Draco had to admit that Harry Potter had tried the Socratic
Method first and it hadn’t been working too well.

Harry Potter had asked how Draco would go about disproving the
blood-purist hypothesis that wizards couldn’t do the neat stuff now that
they’d done eight centuries ago because they had interbred with
Muggle-borns and Squibs.

Draco had said that he did not understand how Harry Potter could sit
there with a straight face and claim this was not a trap.

Harry Potter had replied, still with a straight face, that if it was a
trap it would have been so pathetically obvious that he ought to be
ground up and fed to pet snakes, but it was not a trap, it was simply a
rule of how scientists operated that you had to try to disprove your own
theories, and if you made an honest effort and failed, that was victory.

Draco had tried to point out the staggering stupidity of this by
suggesting that the key to surviving a duel was to cast Avada Kedavra on
your own foot and miss.

Harry Potter had nodded.

Draco had shaken his head.

Harry Potter had then presented the idea that scientists watched ideas
fight to see which ones won, and you couldn’t fight without an opponent,
so Draco needed to figure out opponents for the blood purist hypothesis
to fight so that blood purism could win, which Draco understood a little
better even though Harry Potter had said it with a rather distasteful
look. Like, it was clear that if blood purism was the way the world
really was, then the sky just had to be blue, and if some other theory
was true, the sky just had to be green; and nobody had seen the sky yet;
and then you went outside and looked and the blood purists won; and
after this had happened six times in a row, people would start noticing
the trend.

Harry Potter had then proceeded to claim that all the opponents Draco
was inventing were too weak, so blood purism wouldn’t get credit for
defeating them because the battle wouldn’t be impressive enough. Draco
had understood that too. Wizards have become weaker because house elves
are stealing our magic hadn’t sounded impressive to him either.

(Though Harry Potter had said that one at least was testable, in that
they could try to check if house elves had become stronger over time,
and even draw a picture representing the increasing strength of house
elves and another picture representing the decreasing strength of
wizards and if the two pictures matched that would point to the house
elves, all said in such completely serious tones that Draco had felt an
impulse to ask Dobby a few pointed questions under Veritaserum before
snapping out of it.)

And Harry Potter had finally said that Draco couldn’t fix the battle,
scientists weren’t dumb, it would be obvious if you fixed the battle, it
had to be a real fight, between two different theories that might both
really be true, with a test that only the true hypothesis would win,
something that actually would come out different ways depending on which
hypothesis was actually correct, and there would be experienced
scientists watching to make sure that was exactly what happened. Harry
Potter had claimed that he himself just wanted to know how blood really
worked and for that he need to see blood purism really win and Draco
wasn’t going to fool him with theories that were just there to be
knocked down.

Even having seen the point, Draco hadn’t been able to invent any
“plausible alternatives”, as Harry Potter put it, to the idea that
wizards were getting less powerful because they were mixing their blood
with mud. It was too obviously true.

It was then that Harry Potter had said, rather frustrated, that he
couldn’t imagine Draco was really this bad at considering different
viewpoints, surely there’d been Death Eaters who’d posed as enemies of
blood purism and had come up with much more plausible-sounding arguments
against their own side than Draco was offering. If Draco had been trying
to pose as a member of Dumbledore’s faction, and come up with the house
elf hypothesis, he wouldn’t have fooled anyone for a second.

Draco had been forced to admit this was a point.

Hence the Potter Method.

“Please, Dr Malfoy,” whined Harry Potter, “why won’t you accept my
paper?”

Harry Potter had needed to repeat the phrase “just pretend to be
pretending to be a scientist” three times before Draco had understood.

In that moment Draco had realized that there was something deeply wrong
with Harry Potter’s brain, and anyone who tried Legilimency on it would
probably never come back out again.

Harry Potter had then gone into further and considerable detail: Draco
was to pretend to be a Death Eater who was posing as the editor of a
scientific journal, Dr Malfoy, who wanted to reject his enemy
Dr Potter’s paper “On the Heritability of Magical Ability”, and if the
Death Eater didn’t act like a real scientist would, he would be revealed
as a Death Eater and executed, while Dr Malfoy was also being watched by
his own rivals and needed to appear to reject Dr Potter’s paper for
neutral scientific reasons or he would lose his position as journal
editor.

It was a wonder the Sorting Hat wasn’t gibbering madly in St. Mungo’s.

It was also the most complicated thing anyone had ever asked Draco to
pretend and there was no possible way he could have refused the
challenge.

Right now they were, as Harry Potter had put it, getting in the mood.

“I’m afraid, Dr Potter, that you wrote this in the wrong colour of ink,”
Draco said. “Next!”

Dr Potter’s face did an excellent job of crumpling in despair, and Draco
couldn’t help but feel a flash of Dr Malfoy’s glee, even though the
Death Eater was only pretending to be Dr Malfoy.

This part was fun. He could have done this all day long.

Dr Potter got up from the chair, slumped over in dismay, and trudged
off, and turned into Harry Potter, who gave Draco a thumbs-up, and then
turned back into Dr Potter again, now approaching with an eager smile.

Dr Potter sat down and presented Dr Malfoy with a piece of parchment on
which was written:

On the Heritability of Magical Ability

Dr H. J. Potter-Evans-Verres, Institute for Sufficiently Advanced
Science

My observation:

Today’s wizards can’t do things as impressive as
what wizards used to do 800 years ago.

My conclusion:

Wizardkind has become weaker by mixing
their blood with Muggle-borns and Squibs.

“Dr Malfoy,” said Dr Potter with a hopeful look, “I was wondering if the
Journal of Irreproducible Results could consider for publication my
paper entitled ‘On the Heritability of Magical Ability’.”

Draco looked at the parchment, smiling while he considered possible
rejections. If he was a professor, he would have refused the essay as
too short, so—

“It’s too long, Dr Potter,” said Dr Malfoy.

For a moment there was genuine incredulity on Dr Potter’s face.

“Ah…” said Dr Potter. “How about if I get rid of the separate lines for
observations and conclusions, and just put in a therefore—”

“Then it’ll be too short. Next!”

Dr Potter trudged off.

“All right,” said Harry Potter, “you’re getting too good at this. Two
more times to practise, and then third time is for real, no
interruptions between, I’ll just come in straight at you and that time
you’ll reject the paper based on the actual content, remember, your
scientific rivals are watching.”

Dr Potter’s next paper was perfect in every way, a marvel of its kind,
but unfortunately had to be rejected because Dr Malfoy’s journal was
having trouble with the letter E. Dr Potter offered to rewrite it
without those words, and Dr Malfoy explained that it was really more of
a vowel problem.

The paper after that was rejected because it was Tuesday.

It was, in fact, Saturday.

Dr Potter tried to point this out and was told “Next!”

(Draco was starting to understand why Snape had used his hold over
Dumbledore just to get a position that let him be awful to students.)

And then—

Dr Potter was approaching with a superior smirk on his face.

“This is my latest paper, On the Heritability of Magical Ability,”
Dr Potter stated confidently, and thrust out the parchment. “I have
decided to allow your journal to publish it, and have prepared it in
perfect accordance with your guidelines so that you may publish it
quickly.”

The Death Eater decided to track down and kill Dr Potter after his
mission was done. Dr Malfoy kept a polite smile on his face, since his
rivals were watching, and said…

(The pause stretched, with Dr Potter looking at him impatiently.)

… “Let me look at that, please.”

Dr Malfoy took the parchment and perused it carefully.

The Death Eater was starting to get nervous about the fact that he
wasn’t a real scientist, and Draco was trying to remember how to talk
like Harry Potter.

“You, ah, need to consider other possible explanations for your, um,
observation, besides just this one—”

“Really?” interrupted Dr Potter. “Like what, exactly? House elves are
stealing our magic? My data admit of only one possible conclusion,
Dr Malfoy. There are no other plausible hypotheses.”

Draco was trying furiously to order his brain to think, what would he
say if he was posing as a member of Dumbledore’s faction, what did they
claim was the explanation for wizardkind’s decline, Draco had never
bothered to actually ask that…

“If you can’t think of any other way to explain my data, you’ll have to
publish my paper, Dr Malfoy.”

It was the sneer on Dr Potter’s face that did it.

“Oh yeah?” snapped Dr Malfoy. “How do you know that magic itself isn’t
fading away?”

Time stopped.

Draco and Harry Potter exchanged looks of appalled horror.

Then Harry Potter spat something that was probably an extremely bad word
if you’d been raised by Muggles. “I didn’t think of that!” said Harry
Potter. “And I should have. The magic goes away. Damn, damn, damn!”

The alarm in Harry Potter’s voice was contagious. Without even thinking
about it, Draco’s hand went into his robes and clutched at his wand.
He’d thought the House of Malfoy was safe, so long as you only married
into families that could trace their bloodlines back four generations
you were supposed to be safe, it had never occurred to him before that
there might be nothing anyone could do to stop the end of magic. “Harry,
what do we do?” Draco’s voice was rising in panic. “What do we do?”

“Let me think!”

After a few moments, Harry grabbed from a nearby desk the same quill and
roll of parchment he’d used to write his pretend paper, and started
scribbling something.

“We’ll figure it out,” Harry said, his voice tight, “if magic is fading
out of the world we’ll figure out how fast it’s fading and how much time
we have left to do something, and then we’ll figure out why it’s fading,
and then we’ll do something about it. Draco, have wizarding powers been
declining at a steady rate, or have there been sudden drops?”

“I… I don’t know…”

“You told me that no-one had matched the four founders of Hogwarts. So
it’s been going on for at least eight centuries, then? You can’t
remember hearing anything about the problems suddenly appearing five
centuries ago or anything like that?”

Draco was trying frantically to think. “I always heard that nobody was
as good as Merlin and then after that nobody was as good as the Founders
of Hogwarts.”

“All right,” Harry said. He was still scribbling. “Because three
centuries ago is when Muggles started to not believe in magic, which I
thought might have something to do with it. And about a century and a
half ago was when Muggles began using a kind of technology that stops
working around magic and I was wondering if it might also go the other
way around.”

Draco exploded out of his chair, so angry he could hardly even speak.
“It’s the Muggles—”

“Damn it!” roared Harry. “Weren’t you even listening to yourself? It’s
been going on for eight centuries at least and the Muggles weren’t doing
anything interesting then! We have to figure out the real truth! The
Muggles might have something to do with this but if they don’t and you
go blaming everything on them and that stops us from figuring out what’s
really going on then one day you’re going to wake up in the morning and
find out that your wand is just a stick of wood!”

Draco’s breath stopped in his throat. His father often said our wands
will break in our hands in his speeches but Draco had never really
thought before about what that meant, it wasn’t going to happen to him
after all. And now suddenly it seemed very real. Just a stick of wood.
Draco could imagine just what it would be like to take out his wand and
try to cast a spell and find that nothing was happening…

That could happen to everyone.

There would be no more wizards, no more magic, ever. Just Muggles who
had a few legends about what their ancestors had been able to do. Some
of the Muggles would be called Malfoy, and that would be all that was
left of the name.

For the first time in his life, Draco realized why there were Death
Eaters.

He’d always taken for granted that becoming a Death Eater was something
you did when you grew up. Now Draco understood, he knew why Father and
Father’s friends had sworn to give their lives to prevent the nightmare
from coming to pass, there were things you couldn’t just stand by and
watch happen. But what if it was going to happen anyway, what if all the
sacrifices, all the friends they’d lost to Dumbledore, the family they’d
lost, what if it had all been for nothing…

“Magic can’t be fading away,” Draco said. His voice was breaking. “It
wouldn’t be fair.”

Harry stopped scribbling and looked up. His face had an angry
expression. “Your father never told you that life isn’t fair?”

Father had said that every single time Draco used the word. “But, but,
it’s too awful to believe that—”

“Draco, let me introduce you to something I call the Litany of Tarski.
It changes every time you use it. On this occasion it runs like so: If
magic is fading out of the world, I want to believe that magic is fading
out of the world. If magic is not fading out of the world, I want not to
believe that magic is fading out of the world. Let me not become
attached to beliefs I may not want. If we’re living in a world where
magic is fading, that’s what we have to believe, we have to know what’s
coming, so we can stop it, or in the very worst case, be prepared to do
what we can in the time we have left. Not believing it won’t stop it
from happening. So the only question we have to ask is whether magic is
actually fading, and if that’s the world we live in then that’s what we
want to believe. Litany of Gendlin: What’s true is already so, owning up
to it doesn’t make it worse. Got that, Draco? I’m going to make you
memorize it later. It’s something you repeat to yourself any time you
start wondering if it’s a good idea to believe something that isn’t
actually true. In fact I want you to say it right now. What’s true is
already so, owning up to it doesn’t make it worse. Say it.”

“What’s true is already so,” repeated Draco, his voice trembling,
“owning up to it doesn’t make it worse.”

“If magic is fading, I want to believe that magic is fading. If magic is
not fading, I want not to believe that magic is fading. Say it.”

Draco repeated back the words, the sickness churning in his stomach.

“Good,” Harry said, “remember, it might not be happening, and then you
won’t have to believe it, either. First we just want to know what’s
actually going on, which world we actually live in.” Harry turned back
to his work, scribbled some more, and then turned the parchment so Draco
could see it. Draco leaned over the desk and Harry brought the green
light closer.

OBSERVATION:
Wizardry isn’t as powerful now as it was when Hogwarts was founded.

HYPOTHESES:

1.  Magic itself is fading.

2.  Wizards are interbreeding with Muggles and Squibs.

3.  Knowledge to cast powerful spells is being lost.

4.  Wizards are eating the wrong foods as children, or something else
    besides blood is making them grow up weaker.

5.  Muggle technology is interfering with magic. (Since 800 years ago?)

6.  Stronger wizards are having fewer children. (Draco = only child?
    Check if 3 powerful wizards, Quirrell / Dumbledore / Dark Lord, had
    any children.)

TESTS:

“All right,” Harry said. His breathing sounded a little calmer. “Now
when you’re dealing with a confusing problem and you have no idea what’s
going on, the smart thing to do is figure out some really simple tests,
things you can look at right away. We need fast tests that distinguish
between these hypotheses. Observations that would come out a different
way for at least one of them compared to all the other ones.”

Draco stared at the list in shock. He was suddenly realizing that he
knew an awful lot of purebloods who were only children. Himself,
Vincent, Gregory, practically everyone. The two most powerful wizards
everyone talked about were Dumbledore and the Dark Lord and neither had
any children just like Harry had suspected…

“It’s going to be really hard to distinguish between 2 and 6,” Harry
said, “it’s in the blood either way, you’d have to try and track the
decline of wizardry and compare that to how many kids different wizards
were having and measure the abilities of Muggle-borns compared to
purebloods…” Harry’s fingers were tapping nervously on the desk. “Let’s
just lump 6 in with 2 and call them the blood hypothesis for now. 4 is
unlikely because then everyone would notice a sudden drop when the
wizards switched to new foods, it’s hard to see what would’ve changed
steadily over 800 years. 5 is unlikely for the same reason, no sudden
drop, Muggles weren’t doing anything 800 years back. 4 looks like 2 and
5 looks like 1 anyway. So mainly we should be trying to distinguish
between 1, 2, and 3.” Harry turned the parchment to himself, drew an
ellipse around those three numbers, turned it back. “Magic is fading,
blood is weakening, knowledge is disappearing. What test comes out
differently depending on which of those is true? What could we see that
would mean any one of these was false?”

“I don’t know!” blurted Draco. “Why are you asking me? You’re the
scientist!”

“Draco,” Harry said, a note of pleading desperation in his voice, “I
only know what Muggle scientists know! You grew up in the wizarding
world, I didn’t! You know more magic than I do and you know more about
magic than I do and you thought of this whole idea in the first place,
so start thinking like a scientist and solve this!”

Draco swallowed hard and stared at the paper.

Magic is fading… wizards are interbreeding with Muggles… knowledge is
being lost…

“What does the world look like if magic is fading?” said Harry Potter.
“You know more about magic, you should be the one guessing not me!
Imagine you’re telling a story about it, what happens in the story?”

Draco imagined it. “Charms that used to work stop working.” Wizards wake
up and find that their wands are sticks of wood…

“What does the world look like if the wizarding blood gets weaker?”

“People can’t do things their ancestors could do.”

“What does the world look like if knowledge is being lost?”

“People don’t know how to cast the Charms in the first place…” said
Draco. He stopped, surprised at himself. “That’s a test, isn’t it?”

Harry nodded decisively. “That’s one.” He wrote it down on the parchment
under Tests:

A. Are there spells we know but can’t cast (1 or 2) or are the lost
spells no longer known (3)?

“So that distinguishes between 1 and 2 on the one hand, and 3 on the
other hand,” said Harry. “Now we need some way to distinguish between 1
and 2. Magic fading, blood weakening, how could we tell the difference?”

“What kind of Charms did students used to cast in their first year at
Hogwarts?” said Draco. “If they used to be able to cast much more
powerful Charms, the blood was stronger—”

Harry Potter shook his head. “Or magic itself was stronger. We have to
figure out some way of telling the difference.” Harry stood up from his
chair, began pacing nervously through the classroom. “No, wait, that
might still work. Suppose different spells use up different amounts of
magical energy. Then if the ambient magic weakened, the powerful spells
would die first, but the spells everyone learns in their first year
would stay the same…” Harry’s nervous pacing sped up. “It’s not a very
good test, it’s more about powerful wizardry being lost versus all
wizardry being lost, someone’s blood could be too weak for powerful
wizardry but strong enough for easy spells… Draco, do you know if more
powerful wizards within a single era, like powerful wizards from just
this century, are more powerful as children? If the Dark Lord had cast
the Cooling Charm when he was eleven, could he have frozen the whole
room?”

Draco’s face screwed up as he tried to recollect. “I can’t remember
hearing anything about the Dark Lord but I think Dumbledore’s supposed
to have done something amazing on his Transfiguration O.W.L.s in fifth
year… I think other powerful wizards were good in Hogwarts too…”

Harry scowled, still pacing. “They could just be studying hard. Still,
if first-year students learned the same spells and seemed about as
powerful then as now, we could call that weak evidence favouring 1 over
2… wait, hold on.” Harry stopped where he stood. “I have another test
that might distinguish between 1 and 2. It would take a while to
explain, it uses some things that scientists know about blood and
inheritance, but it’s an easy question to ask. And if we combine my test
and your test and they both come out the same way, that’s a strong hint
at the answer.” Harry almost ran back to the desk, took the parchment
and wrote:

B. Did ancient first-year students cast the same sort of spells, with
the same power, as now? (Weak evidence for 1 over 2, but blood could
also be losing powerful wizardry only.)

C. Additional test that distinguishes 1 and 2 using scientific knowledge
of blood, will explain later.

“Okay,” said Harry, “we can at least try to tell the difference between
1 and 2 and 3, so let’s go with this right away, we can figure out more
tests after we do the ones we already have. Now it’s going to look a
little odd if Draco Malfoy and Harry Potter go around asking questions
together, so here’s my idea. You’ll go through Hogwarts and find old
portraits and ask them about what spells they learned to cast during
their first years. They’re portraits so they won’t know there’s anything
odd about Draco Malfoy doing that. I’ll ask recent portraits and living
people about spells we know but can’t cast, no-one will notice anything
unusual if Harry Potter asks weird questions. And I’ll have to do
complicated research about forgotten spells, so I want you to be the one
to gather the data I need for my own scientific question. It’s a simple
question and you should be able to find the answer by asking portraits.
You might want to write this down, ready?”

Draco sat down again and scrabbled in his book bag for parchment and
quill. When it was laid down on the desk, Draco looked up, face
determined. “Go ahead.”

“Find portraits who knew a married Squib couple—don’t make that face,
Draco, it’s important information. Just ask recent portraits who are
Gryffindors or something. Find portraits who knew a married Squib couple
well enough to know the names of all their children. Write down the name
of each child and whether that child was a wizard, a Squib, or a Muggle.
If they don’t know whether the child was a Squib or a Muggle, write down
‘non-wizard’. Write that down for every child the couple had, don’t
leave any out. If the portrait only knows the name of the wizarding
children, not the names of all the children, then don’t write down any
data from that couple. It’s very important that you only bring me data
from someone who knows all the children a Squib couple had, well enough
to know them all by name. Try to get at least forty names total, if you
can, and if you have time for more, even better. Have you got all that?”

“Repeat it,” Draco said, when he was done writing, and Harry repeated
it.

“I’ve got it,” Draco said, “but why—”

“It has to do with one of the secrets of blood that scientists already
discovered. I’ll explain when you get back. Let’s split up and meet back
here in an hour, 6:22 p.m. that should be. Are we ready to go?”

Draco nodded decisively. It was all very rushed, but he’d long since
been taught how to rush.

“Then go!” said Harry Potter and yanked off his cowled cloak and shoved
it into his pouch, which began eating it, and, without even waiting for
his pouch to finish, spun around and began striding rapidly toward the
classroom door, bumping into a desk and almost falling over in his
haste.

By the time Draco had managed to get his own cloak off and stow it in
his book bag, Harry Potter was gone.

Draco almost ran out the door.

23. Belief in Belief

E. Y.: Everybody wants a rock to wind a piece of string around
J. K. Rowling.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“AND then Janet was a Squib,” said the portrait of a short young woman
with a gold-trimmed hat.

Draco wrote it down. That was only twenty-eight but it was time to go
back and meet Harry.

He’d needed to ask other portraits to help translating, English had
changed a lot, but the oldest portraits had described first-year spells
that sounded an awful lot like the ones they had now. Draco had
recognized around half of them and the other half didn’t sound any more
powerful.

The sick feeling in his stomach had grown with each answer until
finally, unable to take it any more, he’d gone off and asked other
portraits Harry Potter’s strange question about Squib marriages,
instead. The first five portraits hadn’t known anyone and finally he’d
asked those portraits to ask their acquaintances to ask their
acquaintances and so managed to find some people who’d actually admit to
being friends with Squibs.

(The first-year Slytherin had explained he was working on an important
project with a Ravenclaw and the Ravenclaw had told him they needed this
information and then run off without saying why. This had garnered many
sympathetic looks.)

Draco’s feet were heavy as he walked through the corridors of Hogwarts.
He should have been running but he couldn’t seem to muster the energy.
He kept on thinking that he didn’t want to know about this, he didn’t
want to be involved in any of this, he didn’t want this to be his
responsibility, just let Harry Potter do it, if magic was fading let
Harry Potter take care of it…

But Draco knew that wasn’t right.

Chill the dungeons of Slytherin, grey the stone walls, Draco usually
liked the atmosphere, but now it seemed too much like fading.

His hand on the doorknob, Harry Potter already inside and waiting,
wearing his cowled cloak.

“The ancient first-year spells,” Harry Potter said. “What did you find?”

“They’re no more powerful than the spells we use now.”

Harry Potter’s fist struck a desk, hard. “Damn it. All right. My own
experiment was a failure, Draco. There’s something called the Interdict
of Merlin—”

Draco hit himself on the forehead, realizing.

“—which stops anyone from getting knowledge of powerful spells out of
books, even if you find and read a powerful wizard’s notes they won’t
make sense to you, it has to go from one living mind to another. I
couldn’t find any powerful spells that we had the instructions for but
couldn’t cast. But if you can’t get them out of old books, why would
anyone bother passing them on by word of mouth after they stopped
working? Did you get the data on the Squib couples?”

Draco started to hand the parchment over—

But Harry Potter held up a hand. “Law of science, Draco. First I tell
you the theory and the prediction. Then you show me the data. That way
you know I’m not just making up a theory to fit; you know that the
theory actually predicted the data in advance. I have to explain this to
you anyway, so I have to explain it before you show me the data. That’s
the rule. So put on your cloak and let’s sit down.”

Harry Potter sat down at a desk with torn scraps of paper arranged
across its surface. Draco drew his cloak out of his book bag, drew it
on, and sat down across from Harry on the other side, giving the paper
scraps a puzzled look. They were arranged in two rows and the rows were
about twenty scraps long.

“The secret of blood,” said Harry Potter, an intense look on his face,
“is something called deoxyribonucleic acid. You don’t say that name in
front of anyone who’s not a scientist. Deoxyribonucleic acid is the
recipe that tells your body how to grow, two legs, two arms, short or
tall, whether you have brown eyes or green. It’s a material thing, you
can see it if you have microscopes, which are like telescopes only they
look at things that are very small instead of very far away. And that
recipe has two copies of everything, always, in case one copy is broken.
Imagine two long rows of pieces of paper. At each place in the row,
there are two pieces of paper, and when you have children, your body
selects one piece of paper at random from each place in the row, and the
mother’s body will do the same, and so the child also gets two pieces of
paper at each place in the row. Two copies of everything, one from your
mother, one from your father, and when you have children they get one
piece of paper from you at random in each place.”

As Harry spoke, his fingers ranged over the paired scraps of paper,
pointing to one part of the pair when he said “from your mother”, the
other when he said “from your father”. And as Harry talked about picking
a piece of paper at random, his hand pulled a Knut out of his robes and
flipped it; Harry looked at the coin, and then pointed to the top piece
of paper. All without a pause in the speech.

“Now when it comes to something like being short or tall, there’s a lot
of places in the recipe that make little differences. So if a tall
father marries a short mother, the child gets some pieces of paper
saying ‘tall’ and some pieces of paper saying ‘short’, and usually the
child ends up middle-sized. But not always. By luck, the child might get
a lot of pieces saying ‘tall’, and not many papers saying ‘short’, and
grow up pretty tall. You could have a tall father with five papers
saying ‘tall’ and a tall mother with five papers saying ‘tall’ and by
amazing luck the child gets all ten papers saying ‘tall’ and ends up
taller than both of them. You see? Blood isn’t a perfect fluid, it
doesn’t mix perfectly. Deoxyribonucleic acid is made up of lots of
little pieces, like a glass of pebbles instead of a glass of water.
That’s why a child isn’t always exactly in the middle of the parents.”

Draco listened with his mouth open. How in Merlin’s name had the Muggles
figured all this out? They could see the recipe?

“Now,” Harry Potter said, “suppose that, just like with tallness,
there’s lots of little places in the recipe where you can have a piece
of paper that says ‘magic’ or ‘not magic’. If you have enough pieces of
paper saying ‘magic’ you’re a wizard, if you have a lot of pieces of
paper you’re a powerful wizard, if you have too few you’re a Muggle, and
in between you’re a Squib. Then, when two Squibs marry, most of the time
the children should also be Squibs, but once in a while a child will get
lucky and get most of the father’s magic papers and most of the mother’s
magic papers, and be strong enough to be a wizard. But probably not a
very powerful one. If you started out with a lot of powerful wizards and
they married only each other, they would stay powerful. But if they
started marrying Muggle-borns who were just barely magical, or Squibs…
you see? The blood wouldn’t mix perfectly, it would be a glass of
pebbles, not a glass of water, because that’s just the way blood works.
There would still be powerful wizards now and then, when they got a lot
of magic papers by luck. But they wouldn’t be as powerful as the most
powerful wizards from earlier.”

Draco nodded slowly. He’d never heard it explained that way before.
There was a surprising beauty to how exactly it fit.

“But,” Harry said. “That’s only one hypothesis. Suppose that instead
there’s only a single place in the recipe that makes you a wizard. Only
one place where a piece of paper can say ‘magic’ or ‘not magic’. And
there are two copies of everything, always. So then there are only three
possibilities. Both copies can say ‘magic’. One copy can say ‘magic’ and
one copy can say ‘not magic’. Or both copies can say ‘not magic’.
Wizards, Squibs, and Muggles. Two copies and you can cast spells, one
copy and you can still use potions or magic devices, and zero copies
means you might even have trouble looking straight at magic.
Muggle-borns wouldn’t really be born to Muggles, they would be born to
two Squibs, two parents each with one magic copy who’d grown up in the
Muggle world. Now imagine a witch marries a Squib. Each child will get
one paper saying ‘magic’ from the mother, always, it doesn’t matter
which piece gets picked at random, both say ‘magic’. But like flipping a
coin, half the time the child will get a paper saying ‘magic’ from the
father, and half the time the child will get the father’s paper saying
‘not magic’. When a witch marries a Squib, the result won’t be a lot of
weak wizarding children. Half the children will be wizards and witches
just as powerful as their mother, and half the children will be Squibs.
Because if there’s just one place in the recipe that makes you a wizard,
then magic isn’t like a glass of pebbles that can mix. It’s like a
single magical pebble, a sorcerer’s stone.”

Harry arranged three pairs of papers side by side. On one pair he wrote
‘magic’ and ‘magic’. On another pair he wrote ‘magic’ on the top paper
only. And the third pair he left blank.

“In which case,” Harry said, “either you have two stones or you don’t.
Either you’re a wizard or not. Powerful wizards would get that way by
studying harder and practising more. And if wizards get inherently less
powerful, not because of spells being lost but because people can’t cast
them… then maybe they’re eating the wrong foods or something. But if
it’s become steadily worse over eight hundred years, then that could
mean magic itself is fading out of the world.”

Harry arranged another two pairs of papers side by side, and took out a
quill. Soon each pair had one piece of paper saying ‘magic’ and the
other paper blank.

“And that brings me to the prediction,” said Harry. “What happens when
two Squibs marry. Flip a coin twice. It can come up heads and heads,
heads and tails, tails and heads, or tails and tails. So one quarter of
the time you’ll get two heads, one quarter of the time you’ll get two
tails, and half the time you’ll get one heads and one tail. Same thing
if two Squibs marry. One quarter of the children would come up magic and
magic, and be wizards. One quarter would come up not-magic and
not-magic, and be Muggles. The other half would be Squibs. It’s a very
old and very classic pattern. It was discovered by Gregor Mendel who is
not forgotten, and it was the first hint ever uncovered for how the
recipe worked. Anyone who knows anything about blood science would
recognize that pattern in an instant. It wouldn’t be exact, any more
than if you flip a coin twice forty times you’ll always get exactly ten
pairs of two heads. But if it’s seven or thirteen wizards out of forty
children that’ll be a strong indicator. That’s the test I had you do.
Now let’s see your data.”

And before Draco could even think, Harry Potter had taken the parchment
out of Draco’s hand.

Draco’s throat was very dry.

Twenty-eight children.

He wasn’t sure of the exact number but he was pretty sure around a
fourth had been wizards.

“Six wizards out of twenty-eight children,” Harry Potter said after a
moment. “Well, that’s that, then. And first-years were casting the same
spells at the same power level eight centuries ago, too. Your test and
my test both came out the same way.”

There was a long silence in the classroom.

“What now?” Draco whispered.

He’d never been so terrified.

“It’s not definite yet,” said Harry Potter. “My experiment failed,
remember? I need you to design another test, Draco.”

“I, I…” Draco said. His voice was breaking. “I can’t do this Harry, it’s
too much for me.”

Harry’s look was fierce. “Yes you can, because you have to. I thought
about it myself, too, after I found out about the Interdict of Merlin.
Draco, is there any way of observing the strength of magic directly?
Some way that doesn’t have anything to do with wizards’ blood or the
spells we learn?”

Draco’s mind was just blank.

“Anything that affects magic affects wizards,” said Harry. “But then we
can’t tell if it’s the wizards or the magic. What does magic affect that
isn’t a wizard?”

“Magical creatures, obviously,” said Draco without even thinking about
it.

Harry Potter slowly smiled. “Draco, that’s brilliant.”

It’s the sort of dumb question you’d only ask in the first place if
you’d been raised by Muggles.

Then the sickness in Draco’s stomach got even worse as he realized what
it would mean if magical creatures were getting weaker. They would know
for certain then that magic was fading, and there was a part of Draco
that was already sure that was exactly what they would find. He didn’t
want to see this, he didn’t want to know…

Harry Potter was already halfway to the door. “Come on, Draco! There’s a
portrait not far from here, we’ll just ask them to go get someone old
and find out right away! We’re cloaked, if someone sees us we can just
run away! Let’s go!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It didn’t take long after that.

It was a wide portrait, but the three people in it were looking rather
crowded. There was a middle-aged man from the twelfth century, dressed
in black swathes of cloth; who spoke to a sad-looking young woman from
the fourteenth century, with hair that seemed to constantly frizz about
her head as if she’d been charged up by a static spell; and she spoke to
a dignified, wizened old man from the seventeenth century with a solid
gold bow tie; and him they could understand.

They had asked about Dementors.

They had asked about phœnixes.

They had asked about dragons and trolls and house elves.

Harry had frowned, pointed out that creatures which needed the most
magic could just be dying out entirely, and had asked for the most
powerful magical creatures known.

There wasn’t anything unfamiliar on the list, except for a species of
Dark creature called mind flayers which the translator noted had finally
been exterminated by Harold Shea, and those didn’t sound half as scary
as Dementors.

Magical creatures were as powerful now as they’d ever been, apparently.

The sickness in Draco’s stomach was easing, and now he just felt
confused.

“Harry,” Draco said in the middle of the old man translating a list of
all eleven powers of a beholder’s eyes, “what does this mean?”

Harry held up a finger and the old man finished the list.

Then Harry thanked all the portraits for helping—Draco, pretty much on
automatic, did so as well and more graciously—and they headed back to
the classroom.

And Harry brought out the original parchment with the hypotheses, and
began scribbling.

OBSERVATION:

Wizardry isn’t as powerful now as it was when Hogwarts was founded.

HYPOTHESES:

1.  Magic itself is fading.

2.  Wizards are interbreeding with Muggles and Squibs.

3.  Knowledge to cast powerful spells is being lost.

4.  Wizards are eating the wrong foods as children, or something else
    besides blood is making them grow up weaker.

5.  Muggle technology is interfering with magic. (Since 800 years ago?)

6.  Stronger wizards are having fewer children. (Draco = only child?
    Check if 3 powerful wizards, Quirrell / Dumbledore / Dark Lord, had
    any children.)

TESTS:

A.  Are there spells we know but can’t cast (1 or 2) or are the lost
    spells no longer known (3)? RESULT: Inconclusive due to Interdict of
    Merlin. No known uncastable spell, but could simply have not been
    passed on.

B.  Did ancient first-year students cast the same sort of spells, with
    the same power, as now? (Weak evidence for 1 over 2, but blood could
    also be losing powerful wizardry only.) RESULT: Same level of
    first-year spells then as now.

C.  Additional test that distinguishes 1 and 2 using scientific
    knowledge of blood, will explain later. RESULT: There’s only one
    place in the recipe that makes you a wizard, and either you have two
    papers saying ‘magic’ or you don’t.

D.  Are magical creatures losing their powers? Distinguishes 1 from (2
    or 3). RESULT: Magical creatures seem to be as strong as they ever
    were.

“A failed,” said Harry Potter. “B is weak evidence for 1 over 2. C
falsifies 2. D falsifies 1. 4 was unlikely and B argues against 4 as
well. 5 was unlikely and D argues against it. 6 is falsified along with
2. That leaves 3. Interdict of Merlin or not, I didn’t actually find any
known spell that couldn’t be cast. So when you add it all up, it looks
like knowledge is being lost.”

And the trap snapped shut.

As soon as the panic went away, as soon as Draco understood that magic
wasn’t fading out, it took all of five seconds to realize.

Draco shoved himself away from the desk and stood up so hard that his
chair skittered with a scraping noise across the floor and fell over.

“So it was all just a stupid trick, then.”

Harry Potter stared at him for a moment, still sitting. When he spoke,
his voice was quiet. “It was a fair test, Draco. If it had come out a
different way, I would have accepted it. That’s not something I would
ever cheat on. Ever. I didn’t look at your data before I made my
predictions. I told you up front when the Interdict of Merlin
invalidated the first experiment—”

“Oh,” Draco said, the anger starting to come out into his voice, “you
didn’t know how the whole thing was going to come out?”

“I didn’t know anything you didn’t know,” Harry said, still quietly. “I
admit that I suspected. Hermione Granger was too powerful, she should
have been barely magical and she wasn’t, how can a Muggle-born be the
best spell-caster in Hogwarts? And she’s getting the best grades on her
essays too, it’s too much coincidence for one girl to be the strongest
magically and academically unless there’s a single cause. Hermione
Granger’s existence pointed to there being only one thing that makes you
a wizard, something you either have or you don’t, and the power
differences coming from how much we know and how much we practise. And
there weren’t different classes for purebloods and Muggle-borns, and so
on. There were too many ways the world didn’t look the way it would look
if you were right. But Draco, I didn’t see anything you couldn’t see
too. I didn’t perform any tests I didn’t tell you about. I didn’t cheat,
Draco. I wanted us to work out the answer together. And I never thought
that magic might be fading out of the world until you said it. It was a
scary idea for me, too.”

“Whatever,” Draco said. He was working very hard to control his voice
and not just start screaming at Harry. “You claim you’re not going to
run off and tell anyone else about this.”

“Not without consulting you first,” Harry said. He opened his hands in a
pleading gesture. “Draco, I’m being as nice as I can but the world
turned out to just not be that way.”

“Fine. Then you and I are through. I’m going to just walk away and
forget any of this ever happened.”

Draco spun around, feeling the burning sensation in his throat, the
sense of betrayal, and that was when he realized he really had liked
Harry Potter, and that thought didn’t slow him down for a moment as he
strode toward the classroom door.

And Harry Potter’s voice came, now louder, and worried:

“Draco… you can’t forget. Don’t you understand? That was your
sacrifice.”

Draco stopped in mid-stride and turned around. “What are you talking
about?”

But there was already a freezing coldness in Draco’s spine.

He knew even before Harry Potter said it.

“To become a scientist. You questioned one of your beliefs, not just a
small belief but something that had great significance to you. You did
experiments, gathered data, and the outcome proved the belief was wrong.
You saw the results and understood what they meant.” Harry Potter’s
voice was faltering. “Remember, Draco, you can’t sacrifice a true belief
that way, because the experiments will confirm it instead of falsifying
it. Your sacrifice to become a scientist was your false belief that
wizard blood was mixing and getting weaker.”

“That’s not true!” said Draco. “I didn’t sacrifice the belief. I still
believe that!” His voice was getting louder, and the chill was getting
worse.

Harry Potter shook his head. His voice came in a whisper. “Draco… I’m
sorry, Draco, you don’t believe it, not any more.” Harry’s voice rose
again. “I’ll prove it to you. Imagine that someone tells you they’re
keeping a dragon in their house. You tell them you want to see it. They
say it’s an invisible dragon. You say fine, you’ll listen to it move.
They say it’s an inaudible dragon. You say you’ll throw some cooking
flour into the air and see the outline of the dragon. They say the
dragon is permeable to flour. And the telling thing is that they know,
in advance, exactly which experimental results they’ll have to explain
away. They know everything will come out the way it does if there’s no
dragon, they know in advance just which excuses they’ll have to make. So
maybe they say there’s a dragon. Maybe they believe they believe there’s
a dragon, it’s called “belief in belief”. But they don’t actually
believe it. You can be mistaken about what you believe, most people
never realize there’s a difference between believing something and
thinking it’s good to believe it.” Harry Potter had risen from the desk
now, and taken a few steps toward Draco. “And Draco, you don’t believe
any more in blood purism, I’ll show you that you don’t. If blood purism
is true, then Hermione Granger doesn’t make sense, so what could explain
her? Maybe she’s a wizarding orphan raised by Muggles, just like I was?
I could go to Granger and ask to see pictures of her parents, to see if
she looks like them. Would you expect her to look different? Should we
go perform that test?”

“They would have put her with relatives,” Draco said, his voice
trembling. “They’ll still look the same.”

“You see. You already know what experimental result you’ll have to
excuse. If you still believed in blood purism you would say, sure, let’s
go take a look, I bet she won’t look like her parents, she’s too
powerful to be a real Muggle-born—”

“They would have put her with relatives!”

“Scientists can do tests to check for sure if someone is the true child
of a father. Granger would probably do it if I paid her family enough.
She wouldn’t be afraid of the results. So what do you expect that test
to show? Tell me to run it and we will. But you already know what the
test will say. You’ll always know. You won’t ever be able to forget. You
might wish you believed in blood purism, but you’ll always expect to see
happen just exactly what would happen if there was only one thing that
made you a wizard. That was your sacrifice to become a scientist.”

Draco’s breathing was ragged. “Do you realize what you’ve done?” Draco
surged forward and he seized Harry by the collar of his robes. His voice
rose to a scream, it sounded unbearably loud in the closed classroom and
the silence. “Do you realize what you’ve done?”

Harry’s voice was shaky. “You had a belief. The belief was false. I
helped you see that. What’s true is already so, owning up to it doesn’t
make it worse—”

The fingers on Draco’s right hand clenched into a fist and that hand
dropped down and blasted up unstoppably and punched Harry Potter in the
jaw so hard that his body went crashing back into a desk and then to the
floor.

“Idiot!” screamed Draco. “Idiot! Idiot!”

“Draco,” whispered Harry from the floor, “Draco, I’m sorry, I didn’t
think this would happen for months, I didn’t expect you to awaken as a
scientist this quickly, I thought I would have longer to prepare you,
teach you the techniques that make it hurt less to admit you’re wrong—”

“What about Father?” Draco said. His voice trembled with rage. “Were you
going to prepare him or did you just not care what happened after this?”

“You can’t tell him!” Harry said, his voice rising in alarm. “He’s not a
scientist! You promised, Draco!”

For a moment the thought of Father not knowing came as a relief.

And then the real anger started to rise.

“So you planned for me to lie to him and tell him I still believe,”
Draco said, voice shaking. “I’ll always have to lie to him, and now when
I grow up I can’t be a Death Eater, and I won’t even be able to tell him
why not.”

“If your father really loves you,” whispered Harry from the floor,
“he’ll still love you even if you don’t become a Death Eater, and it
sounds like your father does really love you, Draco—”

“Your stepfather is a scientist,” Draco said. The words coming out like
biting knives. “If you weren’t going to be a scientist, he would still
love you. But you’d be a little less special to him.”

Harry flinched. The boy opened his mouth, as if to say ‘I’m sorry’, and
then closed his mouth, seeming to think better of it, which was either
very smart of him or very lucky, because Draco might have tried to kill
him.

“You should have warned me,” Draco said. His voice rose. “You should
have warned me!”

“I… I did… every time I told you about the power, I told you about the
price. I said, you have to admit you’re wrong. I said this would be the
hardest path for you. That this was the sacrifice anyone had to make to
become a scientist. I said, what if the experiment says one thing and
your family and friends say another—”

“You call that a warning?” Draco was screaming now. “You call that a
warning? When we’re doing a ritual that calls for a permanent
sacrifice?”

“I… I…” The boy on the floor swallowed. “I guess maybe it wasn’t clear.
I’m sorry. But that which can be destroyed by the truth should be.”

Hitting him wasn’t enough.

“You’re wrong about one thing,” Draco said, his voice deadly. “Granger
isn’t the strongest student in Hogwarts. She just gets the best grades
in class. You’re about to find out the difference.”

Sudden shock showed in Harry’s face, and he tried to roll quickly to his
feet—

It was already too late for him.

“Expelliarmus!”

Harry’s wand flew across the room.

“Gom jabbar!”

A pulse of inky blackness struck Harry’s left hand.

“That’s a torture spell,” said Draco. “It’s for getting information out
of people. I’m just going to leave it on you and lock the door behind me
when I go. Maybe I’ll set the locking spell to wear off after a few
hours. Maybe it won’t wear off until you die in here. Have fun.”

Draco moved smoothly backward, wand still on Harry. Draco’s hand dipped
down, picked up his book bag, without his aim wavering.

The pain was already showing in Harry Potter’s face as he spoke.
“Malfoys are above the underage magic laws, I take it? It’s not because
your blood is stronger. It’s because you already practised. In the
beginning you were as weak as any of us. Is my prediction wrong?”

Draco’s hand whitened on his wand, but his aim stayed steady.

“Just so you know,” Harry said through gritted teeth, “if you’d told me
I was wrong I would have listened. I won’t ever torture you when you
show me that I’m wrong. And you will. Someday. You’re awakened as a
scientist now, and even if you never learn to use your power, you’ll
always,” Harry gasped, “be looking, for ways, to test, your beliefs—”

Draco’s backing away was less smooth, now, a little faster, and he had
to work to keep his wand on Harry as he reached back to open the door
and stepped back out of the classroom.

Then Draco shut the door again.

He cast the most powerful locking Charm he knew.

Draco waited until he heard Harry’s first scream before casting the
Quietus.

And then he walked away.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Aaahhhhh! Finite Incantatem! Aaaahhh!”

Harry’s left hand had been put into a pot of boiling cooking oil and
left there. He’d put everything he had into the Finite Incantatem and it
still wasn’t working.

Some hexes required specific counters or you couldn’t undo them, or
maybe it was just that Draco was that much stronger.

“Aaaaahhhh!”

Harry’s hand was really starting to hurt, now, and that was interfering
with his attempts to think creatively.

But a few screams later, Harry realized what he had to do.

His pouch, unfortunately, was on the wrong side of his body, and it took
some twisting to reach into it, especially with his other arm flailing
around in a reflex, unstoppable attempt to fling off the source of pain.
By the time he managed it his other arm had chucked his wand away again.

“Medical ahhhhh kit! Medical kit!”

On the floor, the green light was too dim to see by.

Harry couldn’t stand. He couldn’t crawl. He rolled across the floor to
where he thought his wand was, and it wasn’t there, and with one hand he
managed to raise himself high enough to see his wand, and he rolled
there, and got the wand, and rolled back to where the medical kit was
opened. There was also a good deal of screaming, and a bit of throwing
up.

It took eight tries before Harry could cast Lumos.

And then, well, the package wasn’t designed to be opened one-handed,
because all wizards were idiots, that was why. Harry had to use his
teeth and so it took a while before Harry finally managed to wrap the
Numbcloth over his left hand.

When all feeling in his left hand was finally gone, Harry let his mind
come apart, and lay motionless on the floor, and cried for a while.

Well, Harry’s mind said silently into itself, when it had recovered
enough to think in words again. Was it worth it?

Slowly, Harry’s functional hand reached up to a desk.

Harry pulled himself to his feet.

Took a deep breath.

Exhaled.

Smiled.

It wasn’t much of a smile, but it was a smile nonetheless.

Thank you, Professor Quirrell, I couldn’t have lost without you.

He hadn’t redeemed Draco yet, not even close. Contrary to what Draco
himself might now believe, Draco was still the child of a Death Eater,
through and through. Still a boy who’d grown up thinking “rape” was
something the cool older kids did. But it was one heck of a start.

Harry couldn’t claim it had all gone just as planned. It had all gone
just as completely made up on the spot. The plan hadn’t called for this
to happen until December or thereabouts, after Harry had taught Draco
the techniques not to deny the evidence when he saw it.

But he’d seen the look of fear on Draco’s face, realized that Draco was
already taking an alternative hypothesis seriously, and seized the
moment. One case of true curiosity had the same sort of redeeming power
in rationality that one case of true love had in films.

In retrospect, Harry had given himself hours to make the most important
discovery in the history of magic, and months to break through the
undeveloped mental barriers of an eleven-year-old boy. This could
indicate that Harry had some sort of major cognitive deficit with
respect to estimating task completion times.

Was Harry going to Science Hell for what he’d done? Harry wasn’t sure.
He’d contrived to keep Draco’s mind on the possibility that magic was
fading, made sure Draco would carry out the part of the experiment that
would seem at first to point in that direction. He’d waited until after
explaining genetics to prompt Draco into realizing about magical
creatures (though Harry had thought in terms of ancient artifacts like
the Sorting Hat, which no-one could duplicate any more, but which
continued to function). But Harry hadn’t actually exaggerated any
evidence, hadn’t distorted the meaning of any results. When the
Interdict of Merlin had invalidated the test that should have been
definitive, he’d told Draco up front.

And then there was the part after that…

But he hadn’t actually lied to Draco. Draco had believed it, and that
would make it true.

The end, admittedly, had not been fun.

Harry turned, and staggered toward the door.

Time to test Draco’s locking spell.

The first step was simply trying to turn the doorknob. Draco could have
been bluffing.

Draco hadn’t been bluffing.

“Finite Incantatem.” Harry’s voice came out rather hoarse, and he could
feel that the spell hadn’t taken.

So Harry tried it again, and that time it felt true. But another twist
at the doorknob showed it hadn’t worked. No surprise there.

Time to bring out the big guns. Harry drew a deep breath. This spell was
one of the most powerful he’d learned so far.

“Alohomora!”

Harry staggered a little after saying it.

And the classroom door still didn’t open.

That shocked Harry. Harry hadn’t been planning to go anywhere near
Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor, of course. But a spell to open magical
locks had seemed like a useful sort of spell anyway, and so Harry had
learned it. Was Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor meant to lure people so
stupid that they didn’t notice the security was worse than what Draco
Malfoy could put on it?

Fear was creeping back into Harry’s system. The placard in the medical
kit had said the Numbcloth could only safely be used for up to thirty
minutes. After that it would come off automatically, and not be reusable
for 24 hours. Right now it was 6:51 p.m. He’d put on the Numbcloth about
five minutes ago.

So Harry took a step back, and considered the door. It was a solid panel
of dark oaken wood, interrupted only by the brass metal doorknob.

Harry didn’t know any explosive or cutting or smashing spells, and
Transfiguring explosive would have violated the rule against
Transfiguring things to be burned. Acid was a liquid and would have made
fumes…

But that was no obstacle to a creative thinker.

Harry laid his wand against one of the door’s brass hinges, and
concentrated on the form of cotton as a pure abstraction apart from any
material cotton, and also on the pure material apart from the pattern
that made it a brass hinge, and brought the two concepts together,
imposing shape on substance. An hour of Transfiguration practice every
day for a month had got Harry to the point where he could Transfigure a
subject of five cubic centimetres in just under a minute.

After two minutes the hinge hadn’t changed at all.

Whoever had designed Draco’s locking spell, they’d thought of that, too.
Or the door was part of Hogwarts and the castle was immune.

A glance showed the walls to be solid stone. So was the floor. So was
the ceiling. You couldn’t separately Transfigure a part of something
that was a solid whole; Harry would have needed to try Transfiguring the
whole wall, which would have taken hours or maybe days of continuous
effort, if he could have done it at all, and if the wall wasn’t
contiguous with the rest of the whole castle…

Harry’s Time-Turner wouldn’t open until 9 p.m. After that he could go
back to 6 p.m., before the door was locked.

How long would the torture spell last?

Harry swallowed hard. Tears were coming into his eyes again.

His brilliantly creative mind had just offered the ingenious suggestion
that Harry could cut his hand off using the hacksaw in the tool set
stored in his pouch, which would hurt, obviously, but might hurt a lot
less than Draco’s pain spell, since the nerves would be gone; and he had
tourniquets in the healer’s kit.

And that was obviously a hideously stupid idea that Harry would regret
the rest of his entire life.

But Harry didn’t know if he could hold out for two hours under torture.

He wanted out of this classroom, he wanted out of this classroom now, he
didn’t want to wait in here screaming for two hours until he could use
the Time-Turner, he needed to get out and find someone to get the
torture spell off his hand…

Think! Harry screamed at his brain. Think! Think!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Slytherin dorm was mostly empty. People were at dinner. For some
reason Draco himself wasn’t feeling very hungry.

Draco closed the door to his private room, locked it, Charmed it shut,
Quieted it, sat down on his bed, and started to cry.

It wasn’t fair.

It wasn’t fair.

It was the first time Draco had ever really lost, Father had warned him
that losing for real would hurt the first time it happened, but he’d
lost so much, it wasn’t fair, it wasn’t fair for him to lose everything
the very first time he lost.

Somewhere in the dungeons, a boy Draco had actually liked was screaming
in pain. Draco had never hurt anyone he’d liked before. Punishing people
who deserved it was supposed to be fun, but this just felt sick inside.
Father hadn’t warned him about that, and Draco wondered if it was a hard
lesson everyone had to learn when they grew up, or if Draco was just
weak.

Draco wished it were Pansy screaming. That would have felt better.

And the worst part was knowing that it might have been a mistake to hurt
Harry Potter.

Who else was there for Draco now? Dumbledore? After what he’d done?
Draco would sooner have been burned alive.

Draco would have to go back to Harry Potter because there was nowhere
else for him to go. And if Harry Potter said he didn’t want him, then
Draco would be nothing, just a pathetic little boy who could never be a
Death Eater, never join Dumbledore’s faction, never learn science.

The trap had been perfectly set, perfectly executed. Father had warned
Draco over and over that what you sacrificed to Dark rituals couldn’t be
regained. But Father hadn’t known that the accursed Muggles had invented
rituals that didn’t need wands, rituals you could be tricked into doing
without knowing it, and that was only one of the terrible secrets which
scientists knew and which Harry Potter had brought with him.

Draco started crying harder, then.

He didn’t want this, he didn’t want this but there was no turning back.
It was too late. He was already a scientist.

Draco knew he should go back and free Harry Potter and apologize. It
would have been the smart thing to do.

Instead Draco stayed in his bed and sobbed.

He’d already hurt Harry Potter. It might be the only time Draco ever got
to hurt him, and he would have to hold to that one memory for the rest
of his life.

Let him keep screaming.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry dropped the remnants of his hacksaw to the ground. The brass
hinges had proved impervious, not even scratched, and Harry was
beginning to suspect that even the desperation act of trying to
Transfigure acid or explosives would have failed to open this door. On
the plus side, the attempt had destroyed the hacksaw.

His watch said it was 7:02 p.m., with less than fifteen minutes left,
and Harry tried to remember if there were any other sharp things in his
pouch that needed destroying, and felt another fit of tears welling up.
If only, when his Time-Turner opened, he could go back and prevent—

And that was when Harry realized he was being silly.

It wasn’t the first time he’d been locked in a room.

Professor McGonagall had already told him the correct way to do this.

…she’d also told him not to use the Time-Turner for this sort of thing.

Would Professor McGonagall realize that this occasion really did warrant
a special exception? Or just take away the Time-Turner entirely?

Harry gathered up all his things, all the evidence, into his pouch. A
Scourgify took care of the vomit on the floor, though not the sweat that
had soaked his robes. He left the overturned desks overturned, it wasn’t
important enough to be worth doing with one hand.

When he was done, Harry glanced down at his watch. 7:04 p.m.

And then Harry waited. Seconds passed, feeling like years.

At 7:07 p.m., the door opened.

Professor Flitwick’s puff-bearded face looked rather concerned. “Are you
all right, Harry?” said the squeaky voice of Ravenclaw’s Head of House.
“I got a note saying you’d been locked in here—”

24. Machiavellian Intelligence Hypothesis

E. Y.: J. K. Rowling coils and strikes, unseen; Orca circles, hard and
lean.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 3

DRACO waited in a small windowed alcove he’d found near the Great Hall,
stomach churning.

There would be a price, and it would not be small. Draco had known that
as soon as he’d woken up and realized that he didn’t dare enter the
Great Hall for breakfast because he might see Harry Potter there and
Draco didn’t know what would happen after that.

Footsteps approached.

“Here ya go,” said Vincent’s voice. “Now da boss ain’t in a good mood
today, so ya’d better watch your step.”

Draco was going to skin that idiot alive and send back the flayed body
with a request for a more intelligent servant, like a dead gerbil.

One set of footsteps went off, and the other set of footsteps came
closer.

The churning in Draco’s stomach got worse.

Harry Potter came into sight. His face was carefully neutral, but his
blue-trimmed robes looked oddly askew, as if they hadn’t been put on
quite right—

“Your hand,” Draco said without thinking about it at all.

Harry raised his left arm, as though to look at it himself.

The hand dangled limply from it, like something dead.

“Madam Pomfrey said it’s not permanent,” Harry said quietly. “She said
it should mostly recover by the time classes start tomorrow.”

For a single instant the news came as a relief.

And then Draco realized.

“You went to Madam Pomfrey,” whispered Draco.

“Of course I did,” said Harry Potter, as though stating the obvious. “My
hand wasn’t working.”

It was slowly dawning on Draco what an absolute fool he’d been, far
worse than the older Slytherins he’d chewed out.

He’d just taken for granted that no-one would go to the authorities when
a Malfoy did something to them. That no-one would want Lucius Malfoy’s
eye on them, ever.

But Harry Potter wasn’t a frightened little Hufflepuff trying to stay
out of the game. He was already playing it, and Father’s eye was already
on him.

“What else did Madam Pomfrey say?” said Draco, his heart in his throat.

“Professor Flitwick said that the spell cast on my hand had been a Dark
torture hex and extremely serious business, and that refusing to say who
did it was absolutely unacceptable.”

There was a long pause.

“And then?” Draco said in a shaking voice.

Harry Potter smiled slightly. “I apologized deeply, which made Professor
Flitwick look very stern, and then I told Professor Flitwick that the
whole thing was, indeed, extremely serious, secret, delicate business,
and that I’d already informed the Headmaster about the project.”

Draco gasped. “No! Flitwick isn’t going to just accept that! He’ll check
with Dumbledore!”

“Indeed,” said Harry Potter. “I was promptly hauled off to the
Headmaster’s office.”

Draco was trembling now. If Dumbledore brought Harry Potter before the
Wizengamot, willingly or otherwise, and had the Boy-Who-Lived testify
under Veritaserum that Draco had tortured him… too many people loved
Harry Potter, Father could lose that vote…

Father might be able to convince Dumbledore not to do that, but it would
cost. Cost terribly. The game had rules now, you couldn’t just threaten
someone at random any more. But Draco had walked into Dumbledore’s hands
of his own free will. And Draco was a very valuable hostage.

Though since Draco couldn’t be a Death Eater now, he wasn’t as valuable
as Father thought.

The thought tore at his heart like a Cutting Charm.

“Then what?” whispered Draco.

“Dumbledore deduced immediately that it was you. He knew we’d been
associating.”

The worst possible scenario. If Dumbledore hadn’t guessed who did it, he
might not have risked using Legilimency just to find out… but if
Dumbledore knew…

“And?” Draco forced out the word.

“We had a little chat.”

“And?”

Harry Potter grinned. “And I explained that it would be in his best
interest not to do anything.”

Draco’s mind ran into a brick wall and splattered. He just stared at
Harry Potter with his mouth hanging slack like a fool.

It took that long for Draco to remember.

Harry knew Dumbledore’s mysterious secret, the one Snape used as his
hold.

Draco could just see it now. Dumbledore looking all stern, concealing
his eagerness as he explained to Harry what a terribly serious matter
this was.

And Harry politely telling Dumbledore to keep his mouth shut if he knew
what was good for him.

Father had warned Draco against people like this, people who could ruin
you and still be so likeable that it was hard to hate them properly.

“After which,” Harry said, “the Headmaster told Professor Flitwick that
this was, indeed, a secret and delicate matter of which he had already
been informed, and that he did not think pressing it at this time would
help me or anyone. Professor Flitwick started to say something about the
Headmaster’s usual plotting going much too far, and I had to interrupt
at that point and explain that it had been my own idea and not anything
the Headmaster forced me into, so Professor Flitwick spun around and
started lecturing me, and the Headmaster interrupted him and said that
as the Boy-Who-Lived I was doomed to have weird and dangerous adventures
so I was safer if I got into them on purpose instead of waiting for them
to happen by accident, and that was when Professor Flitwick threw up his
little hands and started shrieking in a high-pitched voice at both of us
about how he didn’t care what we were cooking up together, but this
wasn’t ever to happen again for as long as I was in Ravenclaw House or
he would have me thrown out and I could go to Gryffindor which was where
all this Dumbledoring belonged—”

Harry was making it very hard for Draco to hate him.

“Anyway,” Harry said, “I didn’t want to be thrown out of Ravenclaw, so I
promised Professor Flitwick that nothing like this would happen again,
and if it did, I would just tell him who did it.”

Harry’s eyes should have been cold. They weren’t. The voice should have
made it a deadly threat. It wasn’t.

And Draco saw the question that should have been obvious, and it killed
the mood in an instant.

“Why… didn’t you?”

Harry walked over to the window, into the small beam of sunlight shining
into the alcove, and turned his head outward, toward the green grounds
of Hogwarts. The brightness shone on him, on his robes, on his face.

“Why didn’t I?” Harry said. His voice caught. “I guess because I just
couldn’t get angry at you. I knew I’d hurt you first. I won’t even call
it fair, because what I did to you was worse than what you did to me.”

It was like running into another brick wall. Harry could have been
speaking archaic Greek for all Draco understood him then.

Draco’s mind scrabbled for patterns and came up flat blank. The
statement was a concession that hadn’t been in Harry’s best interests.
It wasn’t even what Harry should say to make Draco a more loyal servant,
now that Harry held power over him. For that Harry should be emphasizing
how kindly he’d been, not how much he’d hurt Draco.

“Even so,” Harry said, and now his voice was lower, almost a whisper,
“please don’t do that again, Draco. It hurt, and I’m not sure I could
forgive you a second time. I’m not sure I’d be able to want to.”

Draco just didn’t get it.

Was Harry trying to be friends with him?

There was no way Harry Potter could be dumb enough to believe that was
still possible after what he’d done.

You could be someone’s friend and ally, like Draco had tried to do with
Harry, or you could destroy their life and leave them no other options.
Not both.

But then Draco didn’t understand what else Harry could be trying.

And a strange thought came to Draco then, something Harry had kept
talking about yesterday.

And the thought was: Test it.

You’re awakened as a scientist now, Harry had said, and even if you
never learn to use your power, you’ll always, be looking, for ways, to
test, your beliefs… Those ominous words, spoken in gasps of agony, had
kept running through Draco’s mind.

If Harry was pretending to be the repentant friend who had accidentally
hurt someone…

“You planned what you did to me!” Draco said, managing to put a note of
accusation in his voice. “You didn’t do it because you got angry, you
did it because you wanted to!”

Fool, Harry Potter would say, of course I planned it, and now you’re
mine—

Harry turned back toward Draco. “What happened yesterday wasn’t the
plan,” Harry said, his voice seeming stuck in his throat. “The plan was
that I would teach you why you were always better off knowing the truth,
and then we would try together to discover the truth about blood, and
whatever the answer was we would accept it. Yesterday I… rushed things.”

“Always better off knowing the truth,” Draco said coldly. “Like you did
me a favour.”

Harry nodded, blowing Draco’s mind completely, and said, “What if Lucius
comes up with the same idea I did, that the problem is stronger wizards
having fewer children? He might start a scheme to pay the strongest
purebloods to have more children. In fact, if blood purism were right,
that’s just what Lucius should be doing—addressing the problem on his
side, where he can make things happen right away. Right now, Draco,
you’re the only friend Lucius has who would try to stop him from wasting
the effort, because you’re the only one who knows the real truth and can
predict the real results.”

The thought came to Draco that Harry Potter had been raised in a place
so strange that he was now effectively a magical creature rather than a
wizard. Draco simply couldn’t guess what Harry would say or do next.

“Why?” Draco said. Putting pain and betrayal into his voice wasn’t hard
at all. “Why did you do this to me? What was your plan?”

“Well,” Harry said, “you’re Lucius’s heir, and believe it or not,
Dumbledore thinks I belong to him. So we could grow up and fight their
battles with each other. Or we could do something else.”

Slowly, Draco’s mind wrapped around this. “You want to provoke a fight
to the finish between them, then seize power after they’re both
exhausted.” Draco felt cold dread in his chest. He would have to try and
stop that no matter the cost to himself—

But Harry shook his head. “Stars above, no!”

“No…?”

“You wouldn’t go along with that and neither would I,” said Harry. “This
is our world, we don’t want to break it. But imagine, say, Lucius
thought the Conspiracy was your tool and you were on his side,
Dumbledore thought the Conspiracy was my tool and I was on his side,
Lucius thought that you’d turned me and Dumbledore believed the
Conspiracy was mine, Dumbledore thought that I’d turned you and Lucius
believed the Conspiracy was yours, and so they both helped us out but
only in ways that the other one wouldn’t notice.”

Draco did not have to fake being speechless.

Father had once taken him to see a play called The Tragedy of Light,
about this incredibly clever Slytherin named Light who’d set out to
purify the world of evil using an ancient ring that could kill anyone
whose name and face he knew, and who’d been opposed by another
incredibly clever Slytherin, a villain named Lawliet, who’d worn a
disguise to conceal his true face; and Draco had shouted and cheered at
all the right parts, especially in the middle; and then the play had
ended sadly and Draco had been hugely disappointed and Father had gently
pointed out that the word ‘Tragedy’ was right there in the title.

Afterwards, Father had asked Draco if he understood why they had gone to
see this play.

Draco had said it was to teach him to be as cunning as Light and Lawliet
when he grew up.

Father had said that Draco couldn’t possibly be more wrong, and pointed
out that while Lawliet had cleverly concealed his face there had been no
good reason for him to tell Light his name. Father had then gone on to
demolish almost every part of the play, while Draco listened with his
eyes growing wider and wider. And Father had finished by saying that
plays like this were always unrealistic, because if the playwright had
known what someone actually as smart as Light would actually do, the
playwright would have tried to take over the world himself instead of
just writing plays about it.

That was when Father had told Draco about the Rule of Three, which was
that any plot which required more than three different things to happen
would never work in real life.

Father had further explained that since only a fool would attempt a plot
that was as complicated as possible, the real limit was two.

Draco couldn’t even find words to describe the sheer gargantuan
unworkability of Harry’s master plan.

But it was just the sort of mistake you would make if you didn’t have
any mentors and thought you were clever and had learned about plotting
by watching plays.

“So,” said Harry, “what do you think of the plan?”

“It’s clever…” Draco said slowly. Shouting brilliant! and gasping in awe
would have looked too suspicious. “Harry, can I ask a question?”

“Sure,” said Harry.

“Why did you buy Granger an expensive pouch?”

“To show no hard feelings,” said Harry at once. “Though I expect she’ll
also feel awkward if she refuses any small requests I make over the next
couple of months.”

And that was when Draco realized that Harry actually was trying to be
his friend.

Harry’s move against Granger had been smart, maybe even brilliant. Make
your enemy not suspect you, and put them into your debt in a friendly
way so that you could manœuvre them into position just by asking them.
Draco couldn’t have got away with that, his target would have been too
suspicious, but the Boy-Who-Lived could. So the first step of Harry’s
plot was to give his enemy an expensive present, Draco wouldn’t have
thought of that, but it could work…

If you were Harry’s enemy, his plots might be hard to see through at
first, they might even be stupid, but his reasoning would make sense
once you understood it, you would comprehend that he was trying to hurt
you.

The way Harry was acting toward Draco right now did not make sense.

Because if you were Harry’s friend, then he tried to be friends with you
in the alien, incomprehensible way he’d been raised by Muggles to do,
even if it meant destroying your entire life.

The silence stretched.

“I know that I’ve abused our friendship terribly,” Harry said finally.
“But please realize, Draco, that in the end, I just wanted the two of us
to find the truth together. Is that something you can forgive?”

A fork with two paths, but with only one path easy to go back on later
if Draco changed his mind…

“I guess I understand what you were trying to do,” Draco lied, “so yes.”

Harry’s eyes lit up. “I’m glad to hear that, Draco,” he said softly.

The two students stood in that alcove, Harry still dipped in the lone
sunbeam, Draco in shadow.

And Draco realized with a note of horror and despair, that although it
was a terrifying fate indeed to be Harry’s friend, Harry now had so many
different avenues for threatening Draco that being his enemy would be
even worse.

Probably.

Maybe.

Well, he could always switch to being enemies later…

He was doomed.

“So,” Draco said. “Now what?”

“We study again next Saturday?”

“It better not go like the last one—”

“Don’t worry, it won’t,” said Harry. “A few more Saturdays like that and
you’d be ahead of me.”

Harry laughed. Draco didn’t.

“Oh, and before you go,” Harry said, and grinned sheepishly. “I know
this is a bad time, but I wanted to ask you for advice about something,
actually.”

“Okay,” Draco said, still a bit distracted by that last statement.

Harry’s eyes grew intent. “Buying that pouch for Granger used up most of
the gold I managed to steal from my Gringotts vault—”

What.

“—and McGonagall has the vault key, or Dumbledore does now, maybe. And I
was just about to launch a plot that might take some money, so I was
wondering if you know how I can get access—”

“I’ll loan you the money,” said Draco’s mouth in sheer existential
reflex.

Harry looked taken aback, but in a pleased way. “Draco, you don’t have
to—”

“How much?”

Harry named the amount and Draco couldn’t quite keep the shock from
showing on his face. That was almost all the spending money Father had
given Draco to last out the whole year, Draco would be left with just a
few Galleons—

Then Draco mentally kicked himself. All he had to do was write Father
and explain that the money was gone because he had managed to loan it to
Harry Potter, and Father would send him a special congratulatory note
written in golden ink, a giant Chocolate Frog that would take two weeks
to eat, and ten times as many Galleons just in case Harry Potter needed
another loan.

“It’s way too much, isn’t it,” said Harry. “I’m sorry, I shouldn’t have
asked—”

“Excuse me, I am a Malfoy, you know,” said Draco. “I was just surprised
you wanted that much.”

“Don’t worry,” Harry Potter said cheerfully. “It’s nothing that
threatens your family’s interests, just me being evil.”

Draco nodded. “No problem, then. You want to go get it right now?”

“Sure,” said Harry.

As they left the alcove and started heading toward the dungeons, Draco
couldn’t help but ask, “So can you tell me which plot this is for?”

“Rita Skeeter.”

Draco thought some very bad words to himself, but it was far too late to
say no.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

By the time they’d reached the dungeons, Draco had started pulling
together his thoughts again.

He was having trouble hating Harry Potter. Harry had been trying to be
friendly, he was just insane.

And that wasn’t going to stop Draco’s revenge or even slow it down.

“So,” Draco said, after looking around to make certain no-one was
nearby. Their voices would both be Blurred, of course, but it never hurt
to be extra sure. “I’ve been thinking. When we bring new recruits into
the Conspiracy, they’re going to have to think we’re equals. Otherwise
it would only take one of them to blow the plot to Father. You already
worked that out, right?”

“Naturally,” said Harry.

“Will we be equals?” said Draco.

“I’m afraid not,” Harry said. It was clear that he was trying to sound
gentle, and also clear that he was trying to suppress a good deal of
condescension and not quite succeeding. “I’m sorry, Draco, but you don’t
even know what the word Bayesian in Bayesian Conspiracy means right now.
You’re going to have to study for months before we take anyone else in,
just so you can put up a good front.”

“Because I don’t know enough science,” Draco said, carefully keeping his
voice neutral.

Harry shook his head at that. “The problem isn’t that you’re ignorant of
specific science things like deoxyribonucleic acid. That wouldn’t stop
you from being my equal. The problem is that you aren’t trained in the
methods of rationality, the deeper secret knowledge behind how all those
discoveries got made in the first place. I’ll try to teach you those,
but they’re a lot harder to learn. Think of what we did yesterday,
Draco. Yes, you did some of the work. But I was the only one in control.
You answered some of the questions. I asked all of them. You helped
push. I did the steering by myself. And without the methods of
rationality, Draco, you can’t possibly steer the Conspiracy where it
needs to go.”

“I see,” said Draco, his voice sounding disappointed.

Harry’s voice tried to gentle itself even more. “I’ll try to respect
your expertise, Draco, about things like people stuff. But you need to
respect my expertise too, and there’s just no way you could be my equal
when it comes to steering the Conspiracy. You’ve only been a scientist
for one day, you know one secret about deoxyribonucleic acid, and you
aren’t trained in any of the methods of rationality.”

“I understand,” said Draco.

And he did.

People stuff, Harry had said. Seizing control of the Conspiracy probably
wouldn’t even be difficult. And afterwards, he would kill Harry Potter
just to be sure—

The memory rose up in Draco of how sick inside it had felt last night,
knowing Harry was screaming.

Draco thought some more bad words.

Fine. He wouldn’t kill Harry. Harry had been raised by Muggles, it
wasn’t his fault he was insane.

Instead, Harry would live on, just so that Draco could tell him that it
had all been for Harry’s own good, really, he ought to be grateful—

And with a sudden twitch of surprised pleasure, Draco realized that it
actually was for Harry’s own good. If Harry tried to carry out his plan
of playing Dumbledore and Father for fools, he would die.

That made it perfect.

Draco would take all of Harry’s dreams away from him, just as Harry had
done to him.

Draco would tell Harry that it had been for his own good, and it would
be absolutely true.

Draco would wield the Conspiracy and the power of science to purify the
wizarding world, and Father would be as proud of him as if he’d been a
Death Eater.

Harry Potter’s evil plots would be foiled, and the forces of right would
prevail.

The perfect revenge.

Unless…

Just pretend to be pretending to be a scientist, Harry had told him.

Draco didn’t have words to describe exactly what was wrong with Harry’s
mind—

(since Draco had never heard the term depth of recursion)

—but he could guess what sort of plots it implied.

…unless all that was exactly what Harry wanted Draco to do as part of
some even larger plot which Draco would play right into by trying to
foil this one, Harry might even know that his plan was unworkable, it
might have no purpose except luring Draco to thwart it—

No. That way lay madness. There had to be a limit. The Dark Lord himself
hadn’t been that twisty. That sort of thing didn’t happen in real life,
only in Father’s silly bedtime stories about foolish gargoyles who
always ended up furthering the hero’s plans every time they tried to
stop him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And beside Draco, Harry walked along with a smile on his face, thinking
about the evolutionary origins of human intelligence.

In the beginning, before people had quite understood how evolution
worked, they’d gone around thinking crazy ideas like human intelligence
evolved so that we could invent better tools.

The reason why this was crazy was that only one person in the tribe had
to invent a tool, and then everyone else would use it, and it would
spread to other tribes, and still be used by their descendants a hundred
years later. That was great from the perspective of scientific progress,
but in evolutionary terms, it meant that the person who invented
something didn’t have much of a fitness advantage, didn’t have all that
many more children than everyone else. Only relative fitness advantages
could increase the relative frequency of a gene in the population, and
drive some lonely mutation to the point where it was universal and
everyone had it. And brilliant inventions just weren’t common enough to
provide the sort of consistent selection pressure it took to promote a
mutation. It was a natural guess, if you looked at humans with their
guns and tanks and nuclear weapons and compared them to chimpanzees,
that the intelligence was there to make the technology. A natural guess,
but wrong.

Before people had quite understood how evolution worked, they’d gone
around thinking crazy ideas like the climate changed, and tribes had to
migrate, and people had to become smarter in order to solve all the
novel problems.

But human beings had four times the brain size of a chimpanzee. 20% of a
human’s metabolic energy went into feeding the brain. Humans were
ridiculously smarter than any other species. That sort of thing didn’t
happen because the environment stepped up the difficulty of its problems
a little. Then the organisms would just get a little smarter to solve
them. Ending up with that gigantic outsized brain must have taken some
sort of runaway evolutionary process, something that would push and push
without limits.

And today’s scientists had a pretty good guess at what that runaway
evolutionary process had been.

Harry had once read a famous book called Chimpanzee Politics. The book
had described how an adult chimpanzee named Luit had confronted the
ageing alpha, Yeroen, with the help of a young, recently matured
chimpanzee named Nikkie. Nikkie had not intervened directly in the
fights between Luit and Yeroen, but had prevented Yeroen’s other
supporters in the tribe from coming to his aid, distracting them
whenever a confrontation developed between Luit and Yeroen. And in time
Luit had won, and become the new alpha, with Nikkie as the second most
powerful…

…though it hadn’t taken very long after that for Nikkie to form an
alliance with the defeated Yeroen, overthrow Luit, and become the new
new alpha.

It really made you appreciate what millions of years of hominids trying
to outwit each other—an evolutionary arms race without limit—had led to
in the way of increased mental capacity.

’Cos, y’know, a human would have totally seen that one coming.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And beside Harry, Draco walked along, suppressing his smile as he
thought about his revenge.

Someday, maybe in years but some day, Harry Potter would learn just what
it meant to underestimate a Malfoy.

Draco had awakened as a scientist in a single day. Harry had said that
wasn’t supposed to happen for months.

But of course if you were a Malfoy, you would be a more powerful
scientist than anyone who wasn’t.

So Draco would learn all of Harry Potter’s methods of rationality, and
then when the time was ripe—

25. Hold Off on Proposing Solutions

E. Y.: Since the science in this story is usually all correct, I include
a warning that in Chapters 22–25 Harry overlooks many possibilities, the
most important of which is that there are lots of magical genes but
they’re all on one chromosome (which wouldn’t happen naturally, but the
chromosome might have been engineered). In this case, the inheritance
pattern would be Mendelian, but the magical chromosome could still be
degraded by chromosomal crossover with its non-magical homologue. (Harry
has read about Mendel and chromosomes in science history books, but he
hasn’t studied enough actual genetics to know about chromosomal
crossover. Hey, he’s only eleven.) However, although a modern science
journal would find a lot more nits to pick, everything Harry presents as
strong evidence is in fact strong evidence—the other possibilities are
improbable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 2

(The sun shone brilliantly into the Great Hall from the enchanted
sky-ceiling above, illuminating the students as though they sat beneath
the naked sky, gleaming from their plates and bowls, as, refreshed by a
night’s sleep, they inhaled breakfast in preparation for whatever plans
they’d made for their Sunday.)

SO. There was only one thing that made you a wizard.

That wasn’t surprising, when you thought about it. What DNA mostly did
was tell ribosomes how to chain amino acids together into proteins.
Conventional physics seemed quite capable of describing amino acids, and
no matter how many amino acids you chained together, conventional
physics said you would never, ever get magic out of it.

And yet magic seemed to be hereditary, following DNA.

Then that probably wasn’t because the DNA was chaining together
non-magical amino acids into magical proteins.

Rather the key DNA sequence did not, of itself, give you your magic at
all.

Magic came from somewhere else.

(At the Ravenclaw table there was one boy who was staring off into
space, as his right hand automatically spooned some unimportant food
into his mouth from whatever was in front of him. You probably could
have substituted a pile of dirt and he wouldn’t have noticed.)

And for some reason the Source of Magic was paying attention to a
particular DNA marker among individuals who were ordinary ape-descended
humans in every other way.

(Actually there were quite a lot of boys and girls staring off into
space. It was the Ravenclaw table, after all.)

There were other lines of logic leading to the same conclusion. Complex
machinery was always universal within a sexually reproducing species. If
gene B relied on gene A, then A had to be useful on its own, and rise to
near-universality in the gene pool on its own, before B would be useful
often enough to confer a fitness advantage. Then once B was universal
you would get a variant A* that relied on B, and then C that relied on
A* and B, then B* that relied on C, until the whole machine would fall
apart if you removed a single piece. But it all had to happen
incrementally—evolution never looked ahead, evolution would never start
promoting B in preparation for A becoming universal later. Evolution was
the simple historical fact that, whichever organisms did in fact have
the most children, their genes would in fact be more frequent in the
next generation. So each piece of a complex machine had to become nearly
universal before other pieces in the machine would evolve to depend on
its presence.

So complex, interdependent machinery, the powerful sophisticated protein
machines that drove life, was always universal within a sexually
reproducing species—except for a small handful of non-interdependent
variants that were being selected on at any given time, as further
complexity was slowly laid down. It was why all human beings had the
same underlying brain design, the same emotions, the same facial
expressions wired up to those emotions; those adaptations were complex,
so they had to be universal.

If magic had been like that, a big complex adaptation with lots of
necessary genes, then a wizard mating with a Muggle would have resulted
in a child with only half those parts and half the machine wouldn’t do
much. And so there would have been no Muggle-borns, ever. Even if all
the pieces had individually entered the Muggle gene pool, they’d never
reassemble all in one place to form a wizard.

There hadn’t been some genetically isolated valley of humans that had
stumbled onto an evolutionary pathway leading to sophisticated magical
sections of the brain. That complex genetic machinery, if wizards
interbred with Muggles, would never have reassembled into Muggle-borns.

So however your genes made you a wizard, it wasn’t by containing the
blueprints for complicated machinery.

That was the other reason Harry had guessed the Mendelian pattern would
be there. If magical genes weren’t complicated, why would there be more
than one?

And yet magic itself seemed pretty complicated. A door-locking spell
would prevent the door from opening and prevent you from Transfiguring
the hinges and resist Finite Incantatem and Alohomora. Many elements all
pointing in the same direction: you could call that goal-orientation, or
in simpler language, purposefulness.

There were only two known causes of purposeful complexity. Natural
selection, which produced things like butterflies. And intelligent
engineering, which produced things like cars.

Magic didn’t seem like something that had self-replicated into
existence. Spells were purposefully complicated, but not, like a
butterfly, complicated for the purpose of making copies of themselves.
Spells were complicated for the purpose of serving their user, like a
car.

Some intelligent engineer, then, had created the Source of Magic, and
told it to pay attention to a particular DNA marker.

The obvious next thought was that this had something to do with
“Atlantis”.

Harry had asked Hermione about that earlier—on the train to Hogwarts,
after hearing Draco say it—and so far as she knew, nothing more was
known than the word itself.

It might have been pure legend. But it was also plausible enough that a
civilization of magic-users, especially one from before the Interdict of
Merlin, would have managed to blow itself up.

The line of reasoning continued: Atlantis had been an isolated
civilization that had somehow brought into being the Source of Magic,
and told it to serve only people with the Atlantean genetic marker, the
blood of Atlantis.

And by similar logic: the words a wizard spoke, the wand movements,
those weren’t complicated enough of themselves to build up the spell
effects from scratch—not the way that the three billion base pairs of
human DNA actually were complicated enough to build a human body from
scratch, not the way that computer programs took up thousands of bytes
of data.

So the words and wand movements were just triggers, levers pulled on
some hidden and more complex machine. Buttons, not blueprints.

And just like a computer program wouldn’t compile if you made a single
spelling error, the Source of Magic wouldn’t respond to you unless you
cast your spells in exactly the right way.

The chain of logic was inexorable.

And it led inevitably toward a single final conclusion.

The ancient forebears of the wizards, thousands of years earlier, had
told the Source of Magic to only levitate things if you said…

‘Wingardium Leviosa.’

Harry slumped over at the breakfast table, resting his forehead wearily
on his right hand.

There was a story from the dawn days of Artificial Intelligence—back
when they were just starting out and no-one had yet realized the problem
would be difficult—about a professor who had delegated one of his grad
students to solve the problem of computer vision.

Harry was beginning to understand how that grad student must have felt.

This could take a while.

Why did it take more effort to cast the Alohomora spell, if it was just
like pressing a button?

Who’d been silly enough to build in a spell for Avada Kedavra that could
only be cast using hatred?

Why did wordless Transfiguration require you to make a complete mental
separation between the concept of form and concept of material?

Harry might not be done with this problem by the time he graduated
Hogwarts. He could still be working on this problem when he was thirty
years old. Hermione had been right, Harry hadn’t realized that on a gut
level before. He’d just given an inspiring speech about determination.

Harry’s mind briefly considered whether to get on a gut level that he
might never solve the problem at all, then decided that would be taking
things much too far.

Besides, so long as he could get as far as immortality in the first few
decades, he’d be fine.

What method had the Dark Lord used? Come to think, the fact that the
Dark Lord had somehow managed to survive the death of his first body was
almost infinitely more important than the fact that he’d tried to take
over magical Britain—

“Excuse me,” said an expected voice from behind him in very unexpected
tones. “At your convenience, Mr Malfoy requests the favour of a
conversation.”

Harry did not choke on his breakfast cereal. Instead he turned around
and beheld Mr Crabbe.

“Excuse me,” said Harry. “Don’t you mean ‘Da boss wants ta talk wid
youse?’”

Mr Crabbe didn’t look happy. “Mr Malfoy instructed me to speak
properly.”

“I can’t hear you,” Harry said. “You’re not speaking properly.” He
turned back to his bowl of tiny blue crystal snowflakes and deliberately
ate another spoonful.

“Da boss wants to talk with youse,” came a threatening voice from behind
him. “Ya’d better come see him if ya know what’s good for ya.”

There. Now everything was going according to plan.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 1

“A reason?” said the old wizard. He restrained the fury from his face.
The boy before him had been the victim, and certainly did not need to be
frightened any further. “There is nothing that can excuse—”

“What I did to him was worse.”

The old wizard stiffened in sudden horror. “Harry, what have you done?”

“I tricked Draco into believing that I’d tricked him into participating
in a ritual that sacrificed his belief in blood purism. And that meant
he couldn’t be a Death Eater when he grew up. He’d lost everything,
Headmaster.”

There was a long quiet in the office, broken only by the tiny puffs and
whistles of the fiddly things, which after enough time had come to seem
like silence.

“Dear me,” said the old wizard, “I do feel silly. And here I was
expecting you might try to redeem the heir of Malfoy by, say, showing
him true friendship and kindness.”

“Ha! Yeah, like that would have worked.”

The old wizard sighed. This was taking it too far. “Tell me, Harry. Did
it even occur to you that there was something incongruous about setting
out to redeem someone through lies and trickery?”

“I did it without telling any direct lies, and since we’re talking about
Draco Malfoy here, I think the word you’re looking for is congruous.”
The boy looked rather smug.

The old wizard shook his head in despair. “And this is the hero. We’re
all doomed.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 5

The long, narrow tunnel of rough stone, unlit except by a child’s wand,
seemed to stretch on for miles.

The reason for this was simple: it did stretch on for miles.

The time was three in the morning, and Fred and George were starting the
long way down the secret passage that led from a statue of a one-eyed
witch in Hogwarts, to the cellar of the Honeydukes sweet shop in
Hogsmeade.

“How’s it doing?” said Fred in a low voice.

(Not that there’d be anyone listening, but there was something odd about
talking in a normal voice when you were going through a secret passage.)

“Still on the blink,” said George.

“Both, or—”

“Intermittent one fixed itself again. Other one’s same as ever.”

The Map was an extraordinarily powerful artefact, capable of tracking
every sentient being on the school grounds, in real time, by name.
Almost certainly, it had been created during the original raising of
Hogwarts. It was not good that errors were starting to pop up. Chances
were that no-one except Dumbledore could fix it if it was broken.

And the Weasley twins weren’t about to turn the Map over to Dumbledore.
It would have been an unforgivable insult to the Marauders—the four
unknowns who’d managed to steal part of the Hogwarts security system,
something probably forged by Salazar Slytherin himself, and twist it
into a tool for student pranking.

Some might have considered it disrespectful.

Some might have considered it criminal.

The Weasley twins firmly believed that if Godric Gryffindor had been
around to see it, he would have approved.

The brothers walked on and on and on, mostly in silence. The Weasley
twins talked to each other when they were thinking through new pranks,
or when one of them knew something the other didn’t. Otherwise there
wasn’t much point. If they already knew the same information, they
tended to think the same thoughts and make the same decisions.

(Back in the old days, whenever magical identical twins were born, it
had been the custom to kill one of them after birth.)

In time, Fred and George clambered out into a dusty cellar, strewn with
barrels and racks of strange ingredients.

Fred and George waited. It wouldn’t have been polite to do anything
else.

Before too long a thin old man in black pyjamas clambered down the steps
that led into the cellar, yawning. “Hello, boys,” said Ambrosius Flume.
“I wasn’t expecting you tonight. Out of stock already?”

Fred and George decided that Fred would speak.

“Not exactly, Mr Flume,” said Fred. “We were hoping you could help us
with something considerably more… interesting.”

“Now, boys,” said Flume, sounding severe, “I hope you didn’t wake me up
just so I could tell you again that I’m not selling you any merchandise
that could get you into real trouble. Not until you’re sixteen, anyway—”

George drew forth an item from his robes, and wordlessly passed it to
Flume. “Have you seen this?” said Fred.

Flume looked at yesterday’s edition of the Daily Prophet and nodded,
scowling. The headline on the paper read “THE NEXT DARK LORD?” and
showed a young boy which some student’s camera had managed to catch in
an uncharacteristically cold and grim expression.

“I can’t believe that Malfoy,” Flume snapped. “Going after the boy when
he’s only eleven! The man ought to be ground up and used to make
chocolates!”

Fred and George blinked in unison. Malfoy was behind Rita Skeeter? Harry
Potter hadn’t warned them about that… which surely meant that Harry
didn’t know. He never would have brought them in if he did…

Fred and George exchanged glances. Well, Harry didn’t need to know until
after the job was done.

“Mr Flume,” Fred said quietly, “the Boy-Who-Lived needs your help.”

Flume looked at them both.

Then he let out his breath with a sigh.

“All right,” said Flume, “what do you want?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 6

When Rita Skeeter was intent on a tasty prey, she didn’t tend to notice
the scurrying ants who constituted the rest of the universe, which was
how she almost bumped into the balding young man who’d stepped into her
pathway.

“Miss Skeeter,” said the man, sounding rather severe and cold for
someone whose face looked that young. “Fancy running into you here.”

“Out of my way, buster!” snapped Rita, and tried to step around him.

The man in her pathway matched the movement so perfectly that it was
like neither of them had moved at all, just stood still while the street
shifted around them.

Rita’s eyes narrowed. “Who do you think you are?”

“How very foolish,” the man said dryly. “It would have been wise to
memorize the face of the disguised Death Eater training Harry Potter to
be the next Dark Lord. After all,” a thin smile, “that certainly sounds
like someone you wouldn’t want to run into on the street, especially
after doing a hatchet job on him in the newspaper.”

Rita took a moment to place the reference. This was Quirinus Quirrell?
He looked too young and too old at the same time; his face, if it
relaxed from its severe and condescending pose, would belong to someone
in his late thirties. And his hair was already falling out? Couldn’t he
afford a healer?

No, that wasn’t important, she had a time and a place and a beetle to
be. She’d just received an anonymous tip about Madam Bones making time
with one of her younger assistants. That would be worth quite a bonus if
she could manage to verify it, Bones was high on the hit list. The
tipster had said that Bones and her young assistant were due to eat
lunch in a special room at Mary’s Place, a very popular room for certain
purposes; a room which, she’d found, was secure against all listening
devices, but not proof against a beautiful blue beetle nestled up
against one wall…

“Out of my way!” Rita said, and tried to push Quirrell from her path.
Quirrell’s arm brushed her own, deflecting, and Rita staggered as the
thrust went into the thin air.

Quirrell pulled up the sleeve of his left robe, showing his left arm.
“Observe,” said Quirrell, “no Dark Mark. I would like your paper to
publish a retraction.”

Rita let out an incredulous laugh. Of course the man wasn’t a real Death
Eater. The paper wouldn’t have published it if he was. “Forget it,
buster. Now take a hike.”

Quirrell stared at her for a moment.

Then he smiled.

“Miss Skeeter,” said Quirrell, “I had hoped to find some lever that
would prove persuasive. Yet I find that I cannot deny myself the
pleasure of simply crushing you.”

“It’s been tried. Now get out of my way, buster, or I’ll find some
Aurors and have you arrested for obstruction of journalism.”

Quirrell swept her a small bow, and then walked past. “Goodbye, Rita
Skeeter,” said his voice from behind her.

As Rita bulled on ahead, she noted in the back of her mind that the man
was whistling a tune as he walked away.

Like that would scare her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Act 4

“Sorry, count me out,” said Lee Jordan. “I’m more the giant spider
type.”

The Boy-Who-Lived had said that he had important work for the Order of
Chaos, something serious and secret, more significant and difficult than
their usual run of pranks.

And then Harry Potter had launched into a speech that was inspiring, yet
vague. A speech to the effect that Fred and George and Lee had
tremendous potential if they could just learn to be weirder. To make
people’s lives surreal, instead of just surprising them with the
equivalents of buckets of water propped above doors. (Fred and George
had exchanged interested looks, they’d never thought of that one.) Harry
Potter had invoked a picture of the prank they’d pulled on
Neville—which, Harry had mentioned with some remorse, the Sorting Hat
had chewed him out on—but which must have made Neville doubt his own
sanity. For Neville it would have felt like being suddenly transported
into an alternate universe. The same way everyone else had felt when
they’d seen Snape apologize. That was the true power of pranking.

Are you with me? Harry Potter had cried, and Lee Jordan had answered no.

“Count us in,” said Fred, or possibly George, for there was no doubt
that Godric Gryffindor would have said yes.

Lee Jordan gave a regretful grin, and stood up, and left the deserted
and Quieted corridor where the four members of the Order of Chaos had
met and sat down in a conspiratorial circle.

The three members of the Order of Chaos got down to business.

(It wasn’t that sad. Fred and George would still work with Lee on giant
spider pranks, same as ever. They’d only started calling it the Order of
Chaos in order to recruit Harry Potter, after Ron had told them about
Harry being weird and evil, and Fred and George had decided to save
Harry by showing him true friendship and kindness. Thankfully this no
longer seemed necessary—although they weren’t quite sure about that…)

“So,” said one of the twins, “what’s this about?”

“Rita Skeeter,” said Harry. “Do you know who she is?”

Fred and George nodded, frowning.

“She’s been asking questions about me.”

That wasn’t good news.

“Can you guess what I want you to do?”

Fred and George looked at each other, a bit puzzled. “You want us to
slip her some of our more interesting candies?”

“No,” said Harry. “No, no, no! That’s giant-spider thinking! Come on,
what would you do if you heard that Rita Skeeter was looking for rumours
about you?”

That made it obvious.

Grins slowly started on the faces of Fred and George.

“Start rumours about ourselves,” they replied.

“Exactly,” said Harry, grinning widely. “But these can’t be just any
rumours. I want to teach people never to believe what the newspaper says
about Harry Potter, any more than Muggles believe what the newspaper
says about Elvis. At first I just thought about flooding Rita Skeeter
with so many rumours that she wouldn’t know what to believe, but then
she’ll just cherry-pick the ones that sound plausible and bad. So what I
want you to do is create a fake story about me, and get Rita Skeeter to
believe it somehow. But it has to be something that, afterwards,
everyone will know was fake. We want to fool Rita Skeeter and her
editors, and afterwards have the proof come out that it was false. And
of course—given that those are the requirements—the story has to be as
ridiculous as it can possibly be, and still get printed. Do you
understand what I want you to do?”

“Not exactly…” Fred or George said slowly. “You want us to invent the
story?”

“I want you to do all of it,” Harry Potter said. “I’m sort of busy right
now, plus I want to be able to say truthfully that I had no idea what
was coming. Surprise me.”

For a moment there was a very evil grin on the faces of Fred and George.

Then they turned serious. “But Harry, we don’t really know how to do
anything like that—”

“So figure it out,” Harry said. “I have confidence in you. Not total
confidence, but if you can’t do it, tell me that, and I’ll try someone
else, or do it myself. If you have a really good idea—for both the
ridiculous story, and how to convince Rita Skeeter and her editors to
print it—then you can go ahead and do it. But don’t go with something
mediocre. If you can’t come up with something awesome, just say so.”

Fred and George exchanged worried glances.

“I can’t think of anything,” said George.

“Neither can I,” said Fred. “Sorry.”

Harry stared at them.

And then Harry began to explain how you went about thinking of things.

It had been known to take longer than two seconds, said Harry.

You never called any question impossible, said Harry, until you had
taken an actual clock and thought about it for five minutes, by the
motion of the minute hand. Not five minutes metaphorically, five minutes
by a physical clock.

And furthermore, Harry said, his voice emphatic and his right hand
thumping hard on the floor, you did not start out immediately looking
for solutions.

Harry then launched into an explanation of a test done by someone named
Norman Maier, who was something called an organizational psychologist,
and who’d asked two different sets of problem-solving groups to tackle a
problem.

The problem, Harry said, had involved three employees doing three jobs.
The junior employee wanted to just do the easiest job. The senior
employee wanted to rotate between jobs, to avoid boredom. An efficiency
expert had recommended giving the junior person the easiest job and the
senior person the hardest job, which would be 20% more productive.

One set of problem-solving groups had been given the instruction “Do not
propose solutions until the problem has been discussed as thoroughly as
possible without suggesting any.”

The other set of problem-solving groups had been given no instructions.
And those people had done the natural thing, and reacted to the presence
of a problem by proposing solutions. And people had become attached to
those solutions, and started fighting about them, and arguing about the
relative importance of freedom versus efficiency and so on.

The first set of problem-solving groups, the ones given instructions to
discuss the problem first and then solve it, had been far more likely to
hit upon the solution of letting the junior employee keep the easiest
job and rotating the other two people between the other two jobs, for
what the expert’s data said would be a 19% improvement.

Starting out by looking for solutions was taking things entirely out of
order. Like starting a meal with dessert, only bad.

(Harry also quoted someone named Robyn Dawes as saying that the harder a
problem was, the more likely people were to try to solve it
immediately.)

So Harry was going to leave this problem to Fred and George, and they
would discuss all the aspects of it and brainstorm anything they thought
might be remotely relevant. And they shouldn’t try to come up with an
actual solution until they’d finished doing that, unless of course they
did happen to randomly think of something awesome, in which case they
could write it down for afterwards and then go back to thinking. And he
didn’t want to hear back from them about any so-called failures to think
of anything for at least a week. Some people spent decades trying to
think of things.

“Any questions?” said Harry.

Fred and George stared at each other.

“I can’t think of any.”

“Neither can I.”

Harry coughed gently. “You didn’t ask about your budget.”

Budget? they thought.

“I could just tell you the amount,” Harry said. “But I think this will
be more inspiring.”

Harry’s hands dipped into his robe, and brought forth—

Fred and George almost fell over, even though they were sitting down.

“Don’t spend it for the sake of spending it,” Harry said. On the stone
floor in front of them gleamed an absolutely ridiculous amount of money.
“Only spend it if awesomeness requires; and what awesomeness does
require, don’t hesitate to spend. If there’s anything left over, just
return it afterwards, I trust you. Oh, and you get ten percent of what’s
there, regardless of how much you end up spending—”

“We can’t!” blurted one of the twins. “We don’t accept money for that
sort of thing!”

(The twins never took money for doing anything illegal. Unknown to
Ambrosius Flume, they were selling all of his merchandise at zero
percent markup. Fred and George wanted to be able to testify—under
Veritaserum if necessary—that they had not been profiteering criminals,
just providing a public service.)

Harry frowned at them. “But I’m asking you to put in some real work
here. A grown-up would get paid for doing something like this, and it
would still count as a favour for a friend. You can’t just hire people
for this sort of thing.”

Fred and George shook their heads.

“Fine,” Harry said. “I’ll just get you expensive Christmas presents, and
if you try returning them to me I’ll burn them. Now you don’t even know
how much I’m going to spend on you, except, obviously, that it’s going
to be more than if you’d just taken the money. And I’m going to buy you
those presents anyway, so think about that before you tell me you can’t
think of anything awesome.”

Harry stood up, smiling, and turned to go while Fred and George were
still gaping in shock. He strode a few steps away, and then turned back.

“Oh, one last thing,” Harry said. “Leave Professor Quirrell out of
whatever you do. He doesn’t like publicity. I know it’d be easier to get
people to believe weird things about the Defence Professor than anyone
else, and I’m sorry to have to get in your way like that, but please,
leave Professor Quirrell out of it.”

And Harry turned again and took a few more steps—

Looked back one last time, and said, softly, “Thank you.”

And left.

There was a long pause after he’d departed.

“So,” said one.

“So,” said the other.

“The Defence Professor doesn’t like publicity, does he.”

“Harry doesn’t know us very well, does he.”

“No, he doesn’t.”

“But we won’t use his money for that, of course.”

“Of course not, that wouldn’t be right. We’ll do the Defence Professor
separately.”

“We’ll get some Gryffindors to write Skeeter, and say…”

“…his sleeve lifted up one time in Defence class, and they saw the Dark
Mark…”

“…and he’s probably teaching Harry Potter all sorts of dreadful things…”

“…and he’s the worst Defence Professor anyone remembers even in
Hogwarts, he’s not just failing to teach us, he’s getting everything
wrong, the complete opposite of what it should be…”

“…like when he claimed that you could only cast the Killing Curse using
love, which made it pretty much useless.”

“I like that one.”

“Thanks.”

“I bet the Defence Professor likes it too.”

“He does have a sense of humour. He wouldn’t have called us what he did
if he didn’t have a sense of humour.”

“But are we really going to be able to do Harry’s job?”

“Harry said to discuss the problem before trying to solve it, so let’s
do that.”

The Weasley twins decided that George would be the enthusiastic one
while Fred doubted.

“It all seems sort of contradictory,” said Fred. “He wants it to be
ridiculous enough that everyone laughs at Skeeter and knows it’s wrong,
and he wants Skeeter to believe it. We can’t do both things at the same
time.”

“We’ll have to fake up some evidence to convince Skeeter,” said George.

“Was that a solution?” said Fred.

They considered this.

“Maybe,” said George, “but I don’t think we should be all that strict
about it, do you?”

The twins shrugged helplessly.

“So then the fake evidence has to be good enough to convince Skeeter,”
said Fred. “Can we really do that on our own?”

“We don’t have to do it on our own,” said George, and pointed to the
pile of money. “We can hire other people to help us.”

The twins got a thoughtful look on their face.

“That could use up Harry’s budget pretty fast,” said Fred. “This is a
lot of money for us, but it’s not a lot of money for someone like
Flume.”

“Maybe people will give discounts if they know it’s for Harry,” said
George. “But most importantly of all, whatever we do, it has to be
impossible.”

Fred blinked. “What do you mean, impossible?”

“So impossible that we don’t get in trouble, because no-one believes we
could have done it. So impossible that even Harry starts wondering. It
has to be surreal, it has to make people doubt their own sanity, it has
to be… better than Harry.”

Fred’s eyes were wide in astonishment. This happened sometimes, between
them, but not often. “But why?”

“They were pranks. They were all pranks. The pie was a prank. The
Remembrall was a prank. Kevin Entwhistle’s cat was a prank. Snape was a
prank. We’re the best pranksters in Hogwarts, are we going to roll over
and give up without a fight?”

“He’s the Boy-Who-Lived,” said Fred.

“And we’re the Weasley twins! He’s challenging us. He said we could do
what he does. But I bet he doesn’t think we’ll ever be as good as him.”

“He’s right,” said Fred, feeling rather nervous. The Weasley twins did
sometimes disagree even when they had all the same information, but
every time they did it seemed unnatural, like at least one of them must
be doing something wrong. “This is Harry Potter we’re talking about. He
can do the impossible. We can’t.”

“Yes we can,” said George. “And we have to be more impossible than him.”

“But—” said Fred.

“It’s what Godric Gryffindor would do,” said George.

That settled it, and the twins snapped back into… whatever it was that
was normal for them.

“All right, then—”

“—let’s think about it.”

26. Noticing Confusion

E. Y.: Yakka foob mog. Grug pubbawup zink wattoom gazork. Chumble spuzz
J. K. Rowling.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROFESSOR Quirrell’s office hours consisted of 11:40 to 11:55 a.m. on
Thursday. That was for all of his students in all years. It cost a
Quirrell point just to knock on the door, and if he didn’t think your
reason was worth his time, you would lose another fifty.

Harry knocked on the door.

There was a pause. Then a biting voice said, “I suppose you may as well
come in, Mr Potter.”

And before Harry could touch the doorknob, the door slammed open,
hitting the wall with a sharp crack that sounded like something might
have broken in the wood, or the stone, or both.

Professor Quirrell was leaning back in his chair and reading a
suspiciously old-looking book, bound in night-blue leather with silver
runes on the spine. His eyes had not moved from the pages. “I am not in
a good mood, Mr Potter. And when I am not a good mood, I am not a
pleasant person to be around. For your own sake, conduct your business
quickly and depart.”

A cold chill seeped from the room, as though it contained something that
cast darkness the way lamps cast light, and which hadn’t been fully
shaded.

Harry was a bit taken aback. Not in a good mood didn’t quite seem to
cover it. What could be bothering Professor Quirrell this much…?

Well, you didn’t just walk out on friends when they were feeling down.
Harry cautiously advanced into the room. “Is there anything I can do to
help—”

“No,” said Professor Quirrell, still not looking up from the book.

“I mean, if you’ve been dealing with idiots and want someone sane to
talk to…”

There was a surprisingly long pause.

Professor Quirrell slammed the book shut and it vanished with a small
whispering sound. He looked up, then, and Harry flinched.

“I suppose an intelligent conversation would be pleasant for me at this
point,” said Professor Quirrell in the same biting tone that had invited
Harry to enter. “You are not likely to find it so, be warned.”

Harry drew a deep breath. “I promise I won’t mind if you snap at me.
What happened?”

The cold in the room seemed to deepen. “A sixth-year Gryffindor cast a
curse at one of my more promising students, a sixth-year Slytherin.”

Harry swallowed. “What… sort of curse?”

And the fury on Professor Quirrell’s face was no longer contained. “Why
bother to ask an unimportant question like that, Mr Potter? Our friend
the sixth-year Gryffindor did not think it was important!”

“Are you serious?” Harry said before he could stop himself.

“No, I’m in a terrible mood today for no particular reason. Yes I’m
serious, you fool! He didn’t know. He actually didn’t know. I didn’t
believe it until the Aurors confirmed it under Veritaserum. He is in his
sixth year at Hogwarts and he cast a high-level Dark curse without
knowing what it did.”

“You don’t mean,” Harry said, “that he was mistaken about what it did,
that he somehow read the wrong spell description—”

“All he knew was that it was meant to be directed at an enemy. He knew
that was all he knew.”

And that had been enough to cast the spell. “I do not understand how
anything with that small a brain could walk upright.”

“Indeed, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell.

There was a pause. Professor Quirrell leaned forward and picked up the
silver inkwell from his desk, turning it around in his hands, staring at
it as though wondering how he could go about torturing an inkwell to
death.

“Was the sixth-year Slytherin seriously hurt?” said Harry.

“Yes.”

“Was the sixth-year Gryffindor raised by Muggles?”

“Yes.”

“Is Dumbledore refusing to expel him because the poor boy didn’t know?”

Professor Quirrell’s hands whitened on the inkwell. “Do you have a
point, Mr Potter, or are you just stating the obvious?”

“Professor Quirrell,” said Harry gravely, “all the Muggle-raised
students in Hogwarts need a safety lecture in which they are told the
things so ridiculously obvious that no wizardborn would ever think to
mention them. Don’t cast curses if you don’t know what they do, if you
discover something dangerous don’t tell the world about it, don’t brew
high-level potions without supervision in a bathroom, the reason why
there are underage magic laws, all the basics.”

“Why?” said Professor Quirrell. “Let the stupid ones die before they
breed.”

“If you don’t mind losing a few sixth-year Slytherins along with them.”

The inkwell caught fire in Professor Quirrell’s hands and burned with a
terrible slowness, hideous black-orange flames tearing at the metal and
seeming to take tiny bites from it, the silver twisting as it melted, as
though it were trying and failing to escape. There was a tinny shrieking
sound, as though the metal were screaming.

“I suppose you are right,” Professor Quirrell said with a resigned
smile. “I shall design a lecture to ensure that Muggle-borns who are too
stupid to live do not take anyone valuable with them as they depart.”

The inkwell went on screaming and burning in Professor Quirrell’s hands,
tiny droplets of metal, still on fire, now dripping to the desk, as
though the inkwell were crying.

“You’re not running away,” observed Professor Quirrell.

Harry opened his mouth—

“If you’re about to say you’re not scared of me,” said Professor
Quirrell, “don’t.”

“You are the scariest person I know,” Harry said, “and one of the top
reasons for that is your control. I simply can’t imagine hearing that
you’d hurt someone you had not made a deliberate decision to hurt.”

The fire in Professor Quirrell’s hands winked out, and he carefully
placed the ruined inkwell on his desk. “You say the nicest things,
Mr Potter. Have you been taking lessons in flattery? From, perhaps,
Mr Malfoy?”

Harry kept his expression blank, and realized one second too late that
it might as well have been a signed confession. Professor Quirrell
didn’t care what your expression looked like, he cared which states of
mind made it likely.

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell. “Mr Malfoy is a useful friend to have,
Mr Potter, and there is much he can teach you, but I hope you have not
made the mistake of trusting him with too many confidences.”

“He knows nothing which I fear becoming known,” said Harry.

“Well done,” said Professor Quirrell, smiling slightly. “So what was
your original business here?”

“I think I’m done with the preliminary exercises in Occlumency and ready
for the tutor.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “I shall conduct you to Gringotts this
Sunday.” He paused, looking at Harry, and smiled. “And we might even
make it a little outing, if you like. I’ve just had a pleasant thought.”

Harry nodded, smiling back.

As Harry left the office, he heard Professor Quirrell humming a small
tune.

Harry was glad he’d been able to cheer him up.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That Sunday there seemed to be a rather large number of people
whispering in the hallways, at least when Harry Potter walked past them.

And a lot of pointed fingers.

And a great deal of female giggling.

It had started at breakfast, when someone had asked Harry if he’d heard
the news, and Harry had quickly interrupted and said that if the news
was written by Rita Skeeter then he didn’t want to hear about it, he
wanted to read it in the paper himself.

It had then developed that not many students at Hogwarts got copies of
the Daily Prophet, and that the copies which had not already been bought
up from their owners were being passed around in some sort of
complicated order and nobody really knew who had one at the moment…

So Harry had used a Quieting Charm and gone on to eat his breakfast,
trusting to his seat-mates to wave off the many, many questioners, and
doing his best to ignore the incredulity, the laughter, the
congratulatory smiles, the pitying looks, the fearful glances, and the
dropped plates as new people came down for breakfast and heard.

Harry was feeling rather curious, but it really wouldn’t have done to
spoil the artistry by hearing it second hand.

He’d done homework in the safety of his trunk for the next couple of
hours, after telling his dorm-mates to come get him if anyone found him
an original newspaper.

Harry was still ignorant at 10 a.m., when he’d left Hogwarts in a
carriage with Professor Quirrell, who was in the front right, and
currently slumped over in zombie-mode. Harry was sitting diagonally
across, as far away as the carriage allowed, in the back left. Even so,
Harry had a constant feeling of doom as the carriage rattled over a
small path through a section of non-forbidden forest. It made it a bit
hard to read, especially since the material was difficult, and Harry
suddenly wished he was reading one of his childhood science-fiction
books instead—

“We’re outside the wards, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell’s voice
from the front. “Time to go.”

Professor Quirrell carefully disembarked from the carriage, bracing
himself as he stepped down. Harry, on his own side, jumped off.

Harry was wondering exactly how they’d get there when Professor Quirrell
said “Catch!” and threw a bronze Knut at him, and Harry caught it
without thinking.

A giant intangible hook caught at Harry’s abdomen and yanked him back,
hard, only without any sense of acceleration, and an instant later Harry
was standing in the middle of Diagon Alley.

(Excuse me, what? said his brain.)

(We just teleported, explained Harry.)

(That didn’t used to happen in the ancestral environment, Harry’s brain
complained, and disoriented him.)

Harry staggered as his feet adjusted to the brick of the street instead
of the dirt of the forest corridor they had been traversing. He
straightened, still dizzy, with the bustling witches and wizards seeming
to sway slightly, and the cries of the shopkeepers seeming to move
around in his hearing, as his brain tried to place a world to be located
in.

Moments later, there was a sort of sucking-popping sound from a few
paces behind Harry, and when Harry turned to look Professor Quirrell was
there.

“Do you mind—” said Harry, at the same time as Professor Quirrell said,
“I’m afraid I—”

Harry stopped, Professor Quirrell didn’t.

“—need to go off and set something in motion, Mr Potter. As it has been
thoroughly explained to me that I am responsible for anything whatsoever
that happens to you, I’ll be leaving you with—”

“News-stand,” Harry said.

“Pardon?”

“Or anywhere I can buy a copy of the Daily Prophet. Put me there and
I’ll be happy.”

Shortly after, Harry had been delivered into a bookshop, accompanied by
several quietly spoken, ambiguous threats. And the shopkeeper had
received less ambiguous threats, judging by the way he had cringed, and
how his eyes now kept darting between Harry and the entrance.

If the bookshop burned down, Harry was going to stick around in the
middle of the fire until Professor Quirrell got back.

Meanwhile—

Harry took a quick glance around.

The bookshop seemed rather small and shoddy, with only four rows of
bookcases visible, and the nearest shelf Harry’s eyes had jumped to
seemed to deal with narrow, cheaply bound books with grim titles like
The Massacre of Albania in the Fifteenth Century.

First things first. Harry stepped over to the seller’s counter.

“Pardon me,” said Harry, “One copy of the Daily Prophet, please.”

“Five Sickles,” said the shopkeeper. “Sorry, kid, I’ve only got three
left.”

Five Sickles dropped onto the counter. Harry had the feeling he could
have bargained him down a couple of points, but at this point he didn’t
really care.

The shopkeeper’s eyes widened and he seemed to really notice Harry for
the first time. “You!”

“Me!”

“Is it true? Are you really—”

“Shut up! Sorry, I’ve been waiting all day to read this in the original
newspaper instead of hearing about it second hand, so please just hand
it over, all right?”

The shopkeeper stared at Harry for a moment, then wordlessly reached
under the counter and passed over one folded copy of the Daily Prophet.

The headline read:

Harry Potter
Secretly Betrothed
To Ginevra Weasley

Harry stared.

He lifted the newspaper off the counter, softly, reverently, like he was
handling an original Escher artwork, and unbent it to read…

…about the evidence that had convinced Rita Skeeter.

…and some interesting further details.

…and yet more evidence.

Fred and George had cleared it with their sister first, surely? Yes, of
course they had. There was a picture of Ginevra Weasley sighing
longingly over what Harry could see, looking closely, was a photo of
himself. That had to have been staged.

But how on Earth…?

Harry was sitting in a cheap folding chair, rereading the newspaper for
the fourth time, when the door whispered softly and Professor Quirrell
came back into the shop.

“My apologies for—what in Merlin’s name are you reading?”

“It would seem,” said Harry, awe in his voice, “that one Mr Arthur
Weasley was placed under the Imperius Curse by a Death Eater whom my
father killed, thus creating a debt to House Potter, which my father
demanded be repaid by the hand in marriage of the recently born Ginevra
Weasley. Do people actually do that sort of thing around here?”

“How could Miss Skeeter possibly be fool enough to believe—”

And Professor Quirrell’s voice cut off.

Harry had been reading the newspaper held vertically and unfolded, which
meant that Professor Quirrell, from where he was standing, could see the
text underneath the headline.

The look of shock on Professor Quirrell’s face was a work of art almost
on par with the newspaper itself.

“Don’t worry,” said Harry cheerfully, “it’s all fake.”

From elsewhere in the store, he heard the shopkeeper gasp. There was the
sound of a stack of books falling over.

“Mr Potter…” Professor Quirrell said slowly, “are you sure of that?”

“Quite sure. Shall we go?”

Professor Quirrell nodded, looking rather abstracted, and Harry folded
the newspaper back up, and followed him out of the door.

For some reason Harry didn’t seem to be hearing any street noises now.

They walked in silence for thirty seconds before Professor Quirrell
spoke. “Miss Skeeter viewed the original proceedings of the restricted
Wizengamot session.”

“Yes.”

“The original proceedings of the Wizengamot.”

“Yes.”

“I would have trouble doing that.”

“Really?” said Harry. “Because if my suspicions are correct, this was
done by a Hogwarts student.”

“That is beyond impossible,” Professor Quirrell said flatly. “Mr Potter…
I regret to say that this young lady expects to marry you.”

“But that is improbable,” said Harry. “To quote Douglas Adams, the
impossible often has a kind of integrity which the merely improbable
lacks.”

“I see your point,” Professor Quirrell said slowly. “But… no, Mr Potter.
It may be impossible, but I can imagine tampering with the Wizengamot
proceedings. It is unimaginable that the Grand Manager of Gringotts
should affix the seal of his office in witness to a false betrothal
contract, and Miss Skeeter personally verified that seal.”

“Indeed,” said Harry, “you would expect the Grand Manager of Gringotts
to get involved with that much money changing hands. It seems Mr Weasley
was greatly in debt, and so demanded an additional payment of ten
thousand Galleons—”

“Ten thousand Galleons for a Weasley? You could buy the daughter of a
Noble House for that!”

“Excuse me,” Harry said. “I really have to ask at this point, do people
actually do that sort of thing around here—”

“Rarely,” said Professor Quirrell, with a frown on his face. “And not at
all, I suspect, since the Dark Lord departed. I suppose that according
to the newspaper, your father just paid it?”

“He didn’t have any choice,” said Harry. “Not if he wanted to fulfil the
conditions of the prophecy.”

“Give me that,” said Professor Quirrell, and the newspaper leaped out of
Harry’s hand so fast that he got a paper cut.

Harry automatically put the finger in his mouth to suck on, feeling
rather shocked, and turned to remonstrate with Professor Quirrell—

Professor Quirrell had stopped short in the middle of the street, and
his eyes were flickering rapidly back and forth as an invisible force
held the newspaper suspended before him.

Harry watched, gaping in open awe, as the newspaper opened to reveal
pages two and three. And not much long after, four and five. It was like
the man had cast off a pretence of mortality.

And after a troublingly short time, the paper neatly folded itself up
again. Professor Quirrell plucked it from the air and tossed it to
Harry, who caught it in sheer reflex; and then Professor Quirrell
started walking again, and Harry automatically trudged after.

“No,” said Professor Quirrell, “that prophecy didn’t sound quite right
to me either.”

Harry nodded, still stunned.

“The centaurs could have been put under an Imperius,” Professor Quirrell
said, frowning, “that seems understandable. What magic can make, magic
can corrupt, and it is not unthinkable that the Great Seal of Gringotts
could be twisted to another’s hand. The Unspeakable could have been
impersonated with Polyjuice, likewise the Bavarian seer. And with enough
effort it might be possible to tamper with the proceedings of the
Wizengamot. Do you have any idea how that was done?”

“I do not have one single plausible hypothesis,” said Harry. “I do know
it was done on a total budget of forty Galleons.”

Professor Quirrell stopped short and whirled on Harry. His expression
was now completely incredulous. “Forty Galleons will pay a competent
ward-breaker to open a path into a home you wish to burgle! Forty
thousand Galleons might pay a team of the greatest professional
criminals in the world to tamper with the proceedings of the
Wizengamot!”

Harry shrugged helplessly. “I’ll remember that the next time I want to
save thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and sixty Galleons by finding
the right contractor.”

“I do not say this often,” said Professor Quirrell. “I am impressed.”

“Likewise,” said Harry.

“And who is this incredible Hogwarts student?”

“I’m afraid I couldn’t say.”

Somewhat to Harry’s surprise, Professor Quirrell made no objection to
this.

They walked in the direction of the Gringotts building, thinking, for
they were neither of them the sort of person who would give up on the
problem without considering it for at least five minutes.

“I have a feeling,” Harry said finally, “that we’re coming at this from
the wrong angle. There’s a tale I once heard about some students who
came into a physics class, and the teacher showed them a large metal
plate near a fire. She ordered them to feel the metal plate, and they
felt that the metal nearer the fire was cooler, and the metal further
away was warmer. And she said, write down your guess for why this
happens. So some students wrote down ‘because of how the metal conducts
heat’, and some students wrote down ‘because of how the air moves’, and
no-one said ‘this just seems impossible’, and the real answer was that
before the students came into the room, the teacher turned the plate
around.”

“Interesting,” said Professor Quirrell. “That does sound similar. Is
there a moral?”

“That your strength as a rationalist is your ability to be more confused
by fiction than by reality,” said Harry. “If you’re equally good at
explaining any outcome, you have zero knowledge. The students thought
they could use words like ‘because of heat conduction’ to explain
anything, even a metal plate being cooler on the side nearer the fire.
So they didn’t notice how confused they were, and that meant they
couldn’t be more confused by falsehood than by truth. If you tell me
that the centaurs were under the Imperius Curse, I still have the
feeling of something being not quite right. I notice that I’m still
confused even after hearing your explanation.”

“Hm,” said Professor Quirrell.

They walked on further.

“I don’t suppose,” said Harry, “that it’s possible to actually swap
people into alternate universes? Like, this isn’t our own Rita Skeeter,
or they temporarily sent her somewhere else?”

“If that was possible,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice rather dry,
“would I still be here?”

And just as they were almost to the huge white front of the Gringotts
building, Professor Quirrell said:

“Ah. Of course. I see it now. Let me guess, the Weasley twins?”

“What?” said Harry, his voice rising an octave. “How?”

“I’m afraid I couldn’t say.”

“…That is not fair.”

“I think it is extremely fair,” said Professor Quirrell, and they
entered through the bronze doors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The time was just before noon, and Harry and Professor Quirrell were
seated at the foot and head of a wide, long, flat table, in a
sumptuously appointed private room with thoroughly cushioned couches and
chairs along the walls, and soft curtains hanging everywhere.

They were about to eat lunch in Mary’s Place, which Professor Quirrell
had said was known to him as one of the best restaurants in Diagon
Alley, especially for—his voice had dropped meaningfully—certain
purposes.

It was the nicest restaurant that Harry had ever been in, and it was
really eating away at Harry that Professor Quirrell was treating him to
the meal.

The first part of the mission, to find an Occlumency instructor, had
been a success. Professor Quirrell, smiling evilly, had told Griphook to
recommend the best he knew, and not worry about the expense, since
Dumbledore was paying it; and the goblin had smiled in return. There
might have been a certain amount of smiling on Harry’s part as well.

The second part of the plan had been a complete failure.

Harry was not allowed to take money out of his vault without Headmaster
Dumbledore or some other school official present, and Professor Quirrell
had not been given the vault key. Harry’s Muggle parents could not
authorize it because they were Muggles, and Muggles had around the same
legal standing as children or kittens: they were cute, so if you
tortured them in public you could get arrested, but they weren’t people.
Some reluctant provision had been made for recognizing the parents of
Muggle-borns as human in a limited sense, but Harry’s adoptive parents
did not fall into that legal category.

It seemed that Harry was effectively an orphan in the eyes of the
wizarding world. As such, the Headmaster of Hogwarts, or his deputies
within the school system, were Harry’s guardians until he graduated.
Harry could breathe without Dumbledore’s permission, but only so long as
the Headmaster did not specifically prohibit it.

Harry had then asked if he could simply tell Griphook how to diversify
his investments beyond stacks of gold coins sitting in his vault.

Griphook had stared blankly and asked what ‘diversify’ meant.

Banks, it seemed, did not make investments. Banks stored your gold coins
in secure vaults for an annual fee.

The wizarding world did not have a concept of stock. Or equity. Or
corporations. Businesses were run by families out of their personal
vaults.

Loans were made by rich people, not banks. Though Gringotts would
witness the contract, for a fee, and enforce its collection, for a much
larger fee.

Good rich people let their friends borrow money and pay it back
whenever. Bad rich people charged you interest.

There was no secondary market in loans.

Evil rich people charged you annual interest rates of at least 20%.

Harry had stood up, turned away, and rested his head against the wall.

Harry had asked if he needed the Headmaster’s permission before he could
start a bank.

Professor Quirrell had interrupted at this point, saying that it was
time for lunch, and swiftly conducted a fuming Harry out of the bronze
doors of Gringotts, through Diagon Alley, and to a fine restaurant
called Mary’s Place, where a room had been reserved for them. The owner
had looked shocked at seeing Professor Quirrell accompanied by Harry
Potter, but had conducted them to the room without complaint.

And Professor Quirrell had quite deliberately announced that he would
pay the bill, seeming to rather enjoy the look on Harry’s face.

“No,” said Professor Quirrell to the waitress, “we will not require
menus. I will have the daily special accompanied by a bottle of Chianti,
and Mr Potter will have the Diracawl soup to start, followed by a plate
of Roopo balls, and treacle pudding for dessert.”

The waitress, clad in robes that still looked severe and formal while
being rather shorter than usual, bowed respectfully and departed,
shutting the door behind her.

Professor Quirrell waved a hand in the direction of the door, and a bolt
slid shut. “Note the bolt on the inside. This room, Mr Potter, is known
as Mary’s Room. It happens to be proof against all scrying, and I do
mean all; Dumbledore himself could detect nothing of what happens here.
Mary’s Room is used by two kinds of people. The first sort are engaged
in illicit dalliances. And the second sort lead interesting lives.”

“Really,” said Harry.

Professor Quirrell nodded.

Harry’s lips were parted in anticipation. “It would be a waste to just
sit here and eat lunch, then, without doing anything special.”

Professor Quirrell grinned, then took out his wand and flicked it in the
direction of the door. “Of course,” he said, “people who lead
interesting lives take precautions more thorough than the dalliers. I
have just sealed us in. Nothing will now pass in or out of this
room—through the crack under the door, for example. And…”

Professor Quirrell then spoke no fewer than four different Charms, none
of which Harry recognized.

“Even that does not really suffice,” said Professor Quirrell. “If we
were doing anything of truly great import, it would be necessary to
perform another twenty-three checks besides those. If, say, Rita Skeeter
knew or guessed that we would come here, it is possible that she could
be in this room wearing the true Cloak of Invisibility. Or she could be
an Animagus with a tiny form, perhaps. There are tests to rule out such
rare possibilities, but to perform all of them would be arduous. Still,
I wonder if I should do them anyway, just so as not to teach you bad
habits?” And Professor Quirrell tapped a finger on his cheek, looking
abstracted.

“It’s fine,” Harry said, “I understand, and I’ll remember.” Though he
was a little disappointed that they weren’t doing anything of truly
great import.

“Very well,” Professor Quirrell said. He leaned back in his chair,
smiling broadly. “You wrought quite well today, Mr Potter. The basic
notion was yours, I’m sure, even if you delegated the execution. I don’t
think we’ll be hearing much more from Rita Skeeter after this. Lucius
Malfoy will not be pleased with her failure. If she’s smart, she’ll flee
the country the instant she realizes she’s been fooled.”

A sinking sensation began to dawn in Harry’s stomach. “Lucius was behind
Rita Skeeter…?”

“Oh, you didn’t realize that?” said Professor Quirrell.

Harry hadn’t thought about what would happen to Rita Skeeter afterwards.

At all.

Not in the slightest.

But she would get fired from her job, of course she would be fired, she
might have children going through Hogwarts for all Harry knew, and now
it was worse, much worse—

“Is Lucius going to have her killed?” Harry said in a barely audible
voice. Somewhere in his head, the Sorting Hat was screaming at him.

Professor Quirrell smiled dryly. “If you have not dealt with journalists
before, take it from me that the world gets a little brighter every time
one dies.”

Harry jumped out of his chair with a convulsive movement, he had to find
Rita Skeeter and warn her before it was too late—

“Sit down,” Professor Quirrell said sharply. “No, Lucius won’t kill her.
But Lucius makes life extremely unpleasant for those who serve him ill.
Miss Skeeter will flee and start her life over with a new name. Sit
down, Mr Potter; there is nothing you can do at this point, and you have
a lesson to learn.”

Harry sat down, slowly. There was a disappointed, annoyed look on
Professor Quirrell’s face that was doing more to stop him than the
words.

“There are times,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice cutting, “when I
worry that your brilliant Slytherin mind is simply wasted on you. Repeat
after me. Rita Skeeter was a vile, disgusting woman.”

“Rita Skeeter was a vile, disgusting woman,” Harry said. He wasn’t
comfortable saying it, but there didn’t seem to be any other possible
actions, none at all.

“Rita Skeeter tried to destroy my reputation, but I executed an
ingenious plan and destroyed her reputation first.”

“Rita Skeeter challenged me. She lost the game, and I won.”

“Rita Skeeter was an obstacle to my future plans. I had no choice but to
deal with her if I wanted those plans to succeed.”

“Rita Skeeter was my enemy.”

“I cannot possibly get anything done in life if I am not willing to
defeat my enemies.”

“I have defeated one of my enemies today.”

“I am a good boy.”

“I deserve a special reward.”

“Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, who had been grinning a benevolent smile
for the last few lines, “I see I have succeeded in catching your
attention.”

That was true. And while Harry felt like he was being railroaded into
something—no, that wasn’t just a feeling, he had been railroaded—he
couldn’t deny that saying those things, and seeing Professor Quirrell’s
smile, did make him feel better.

Professor Quirrell reached into his robes, the gesture slow and
deliberately significant, and drew forth…

…a book.

It was different from any book Harry had ever seen, the edges and
corners visibly misshapen; rough-hewn was the phrase that came to mind,
like it had been hacked out of a book mine.

“What is it?” breathed Harry.

“A diary,” said Professor Quirrell.

“Whose?”

“That of a famous person.” Professor Quirrell was smiling broadly.

“Okay…”

Professor Quirrell’s expression became more serious. “Mr Potter, one of
the requisites for becoming a powerful wizard is an excellent memory.
The key to a puzzle is often something you read twenty years ago in an
old scroll, or a peculiar ring you saw on the finger of a man you met
only once. I mention this to explain how I managed to remember this
item, and the label attached to it, after meeting you a good deal later.
You see, Mr Potter, over the course of my life, I have viewed a number
of private collections held by individuals who are, perhaps, not quite
deserving of all that they have—”

“You stole it?” Harry said incredulously.

“That is correct,” said Professor Quirrell. “Very recently, in fact. I
think you will appreciate this particular item much more than the vile
little man who held it for no other purpose than impressing his equally
vile friends with its rarity.”

Harry was simply gaping now.

“But if you feel that my actions were incorrect, Mr Potter, I suppose
you needn’t accept your special present. Though of course I shan’t go to
the trouble of putting it back. So which is it to be?”

Professor Quirrell tossed the book from one hand to another, causing
Harry to reach out involuntarily with a look of dismay.

“Oh,” said Professor Quirrell, “don’t worry about a little rough
handling. You could toss this diary in a fireplace and it would emerge
unscathed. In any case, I await your decision.”

Professor Quirrell casually threw the book up into the air and caught it
again, grinning.

No, said Gryffindor and Hufflepuff.

Yes, said Ravenclaw. What part of the word ‘book’ did you two not
understand?

The theft part, said Hufflepuff.

Oh, come on, said Ravenclaw, you can’t seriously ask us to say no and
spend the rest of our life wondering what it was.

It sounds like a net positive from a utilitarian standpoint, said
Slytherin. Think of it as an economic transaction which generates gains
from trade, only without the trade part. Plus, we didn’t steal it and it
won’t help anyone to have Professor Quirrell keep it.

He’s trying to turn you Dark! shrieked Gryffindor, and Hufflepuff nodded
firmly.

Don’t be a naive little boy, said Slytherin, he’s trying to teach you
Slytherin.

Yeah, said Ravenclaw. Whoever owned the book originally was probably a
Death Eater or something. It belongs with us.

Harry’s mouth opened, then halted that way, an agonized look on his
face.

Professor Quirrell seemed to be quite enjoying himself. He had balanced
the book on its corner, on one finger, and was keeping it upright while
humming a little tune.

There came a knock at the door.

The book vanished back into Professor Quirrell’s robes, and he rose up
from his chair. Professor Quirrell started to walk over to the door—

—and staggered, suddenly lurching into the wall.

“It’s all right,” said Professor Quirrell’s voice, which suddenly
sounded a lot weaker than usual. “Sit down, Mr Potter, it’s just a dizzy
spell. Sit down.”

Harry’s fingers gripped the edge of his chair, uncertain as to what he
should do, what he could do. Harry couldn’t even get too close to
Professor Quirrell, not unless he wanted to defy that sense of Doom—

Professor Quirrell straightened, then, his breathing seeming a bit
heavy, and opened the door.

The waitress came in, bearing a platter of food; and as she distributed
the plates, Professor Quirrell walked slowly back to the table.

But by the time the waitress had bowed her way out, Professor Quirrell
was sitting upright and smiling again.

Still, the brief episode of whatever it was had decided Harry. He
couldn’t say no, not after Professor Quirrell had gone to that much
trouble.

“Yes,” Harry said.

Professor Quirrell held up a cautioning finger, then took out his wand
again, locked the door again, and repeated three of the same Charms from
earlier.

Then Professor Quirrell took the book back out of his robes and tossed
it to Harry, who almost dropped it into his soup.

Harry shot Professor Quirrell a look of helpless indignation. You
weren’t supposed to do that with books, enchanted or not.

Harry opened the book with ingrained, instinctive care. The pages seemed
too thick, with a texture unlike either Muggle paper or wizarding
parchment. And the contents were…

…blank?

“Am I supposed to be seeing—”

“Look nearer the beginning,” said Professor Quirrell, and Harry (again
with that helpless, ingrained care) turned a block of pages back.

The lettering was obviously handwritten, and very hard to read, but
Harry thought the words might be Latin.

“What is this?” said Harry.

“That,” said Professor Quirrell, “is a record of the magical researches
of a Muggle-born who never came to Hogwarts. He refused his letter, and
conducted his own small investigations, which never did get very far
without a wand. From the description on the placard, I expect that his
name bears rather more significance to you than to me. That, Harry
Potter, is the diary of Roger Bacon.”

Harry almost fainted.

Nestled up against the wall, where Professor Quirrell had stumbled,
glistened the crushed remains of a beautiful blue beetle.

27. Empathy

E. Y.: J. K. Rowling is 87% confident you will burst into flames.

Roger Bacon lived in the 13th century and is credited as one of the
earliest advocates of the scientific method. Giving a scientist his
experimental diary is sort of like giving a writer the pen, not of
Shakespeare, but of someone who helped invent writing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

IT wasn’t every day you got to see Harry Potter beg.

“Pleeaaase,” whined Harry Potter.

Fred and George shook their heads again, smiling.

There was an agonized look on Harry Potter’s face. “But I told you how I
did the one with Kevin Entwhistle’s cat, and Hermione and the vanishing
soda, and I can’t tell you about the Sorting Hat or the Remembrall or
Professor Snape…”

Fred and George shrugged and turned to leave.

“If you ever do figure it out,” said the Weasley twins, “be sure to let
us know.”

“You’re evil! You’re both evil!”

Fred and George firmly closed the door to the empty classroom behind
them, and made sure to keep the grin on their faces for a while, just in
case Harry Potter could see through doors.

Then they turned a corner and their faces sagged.

“I don’t suppose Harry’s guesses—”

“—gave you any ideas?” they said to each other at the same time, and
then their shoulders slumped further.

Their last relevant memory was of Flume refusing to help them, though
they couldn’t remember what they’d asked him to do…

…but they must have looked elsewhere and found someone to help them do
something illegal, or they wouldn’t have agreed to be Obliviated
afterwards.

How had they possibly been able to get all that done on just forty
Galleons?

At first they’d worried that they’d forged evidence so good that Harry
actually would end up married to Ginny… but they’d thought of that too,
it seemed. The Wizengamot proceedings had been tampered with again to
put them back the way they’d been originally, the fake betrothal
contract had vanished from its dragon-guarded vault in Gringotts, and so
on. It was pretty scary, actually. Most people now thought the Daily
Prophet had just made the whole thing up for unguessable reasons, and
the Quibbler had helpfully twisted the knife deeper with the next day’s
headline, “HARRY POTTER SECRETLY BETROTHED TO LUNA LOVEGOOD”.

Whoever they’d hired would tell them after the statute of limitations
expired, they desperately hoped. But meanwhile it was awful, they’d
pulled their greatest prank ever, maybe the greatest prank in the
history of pranking, and they couldn’t remember how. It was crazy,
they’d been able to think of a way the first time, so why couldn’t they
see it now after knowing everything they’d done?

Their only consolation was that Harry didn’t know they didn’t know.

Not even Mum had questioned them about it, despite the obvious Weasley
connection. Whatever had been done, it was far out of the reach of any
Hogwarts student… except possibly one, who, if certain rumours were
true, might have done it by snapping his fingers. Harry had been
questioned under Veritaserum, he’d told them… with Dumbledore present
and giving the Aurors scary looks. The Aurors had asked just enough to
determine that Harry hadn’t pulled the prank himself or disappeared
anyone, and then they got the heck out of Hogwarts.

Fred and George had wondered whether to feel insulted about Harry Potter
being questioned by the Aurors for their prank, but the look on Harry’s
face, probably for exactly the same reason, made everything worth it.

Unsurprisingly, Rita Skeeter and the editor of the Daily Prophet had
both vanished and were probably in another country by now. They would’ve
liked to be able to tell their family about that part. Dad would have
congratulated them, they thought, after Mum had finished killing them
and Ginny had burned the remains.

But everything was still all right, they’d tell Dad some day, and
meanwhile…

…meanwhile Dumbledore had happened to sneeze while passing them in the
hallway, and a small package had accidentally dropped out of his
pockets, and inside had been two matched ward-breaker’s monocles of
incredible quality. The Weasley twins had tested their new monocles on
the “forbidden” third-floor corridor, making a quick trip to the magic
mirror and back, and they hadn’t been able to see all the detection webs
clearly, but the monocles had shown a lot more than they’d seen the
first time.

Of course they would have to be very careful never to get caught with
the monocles in their possession, or they would end up in the
Headmaster’s office getting a stern lecture and maybe even threats of
expulsion.

It was good to know that not everyone who got Sorted into Gryffindor
grew up to be Professor McGonagall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry was in a white room, windowless, featureless, sitting before a
desk, facing an expressionless man in formal robes of solid black.

The room was screened against detection, and the man had performed
exactly twenty-seven spells before saying so much as “Hello, Mr Potter.”

It was oddly appropriate that the man in black was about to try reading
Harry’s mind.

“Prepare yourself,” the man said tonelessly.

A human mind, Harry’s Occlumency book had said, was only exposed to a
Legilimens along certain surfaces. If you failed to defend your
surfaces, the Legilimens would go through and be able to access any part
of you which their own mind was able to comprehend…

…which tended not to be much. Human minds, it seemed, were hard for
humans to understand on any level but the shallowest. Harry had wondered
if knowing lots of cognitive science could make him an incredibly
powerful Legilimens, but repeated experience had finally driven into him
the lesson that he needed to get a little less excited in his
anticipations about this sort of thing. It wasn’t as if any cognitive
scientist understood humans well enough to make one.

To learn the counter, Occlumency, the first step was to imagine yourself
to be a different person, pretending it as thoroughly as you could,
immersing yourself entirely in that alternate persona. You wouldn’t
always have to do that, but in the beginning, it was how you learned
where your surfaces were. The Legilimens would try to read you, and you
would feel it happening if you paid close enough attention, you would
sense them trying to enter. And your job was to make sure that they
always touched your imaginary persona and not the real one.

When you were good enough at that, you could imagine being a very simple
sort of person, pretend to be a rock, and make a habit of leaving the
pretence in place where all your surfaces were. That was a standard
Occlumency barrier. Pretending to be a rock was hard to learn, but easy
to do afterwards, and the exposed surface of a mind was much shallower
than its interior, so with enough practice you could keep it up as a
background habit.

Or if you were a perfect Occlumens, you could race ahead of any probes,
answering queries as fast as they were asked, so that the Legilimens
would enter through your surfaces and see a mind indistinguishable from
whoever you were pretending to be.

Even the best Legilimens could be fooled that way. If a perfect
Occlumens claimed they were dropping their Occlumency barriers, there
was no way to know if they were lying. Worse, you might not know you
were dealing with a perfect Occlumens. They were rare, but the fact that
they existed meant you couldn’t trust Legilimency on anyone.

It was a sad commentary on how little human beings understood each
other, how little any wizard comprehended the depths lying beneath the
mind’s surface, that you could fool the best human telepaths by
pretending to be someone else.

But then human beings only understood each other in the first place by
pretending. You didn’t make predictions about people by modelling the
hundred trillion synapses in their brain as separate objects. Ask the
best social manipulator on Earth to build you an Artificial Intelligence
from scratch, and they’d just give you a dumb look. You predicted people
by telling your brain to act like theirs. You put yourself in their
place. If you wanted to know what an angry person would do, you
activated your own brain’s anger circuitry, and whatever that circuitry
output, that was your prediction. What did the neural circuitry for
anger actually look like inside? Who knew? The best social manipulator
on Earth might not know what neurons were, and neither might the best
Legilimens.

Anything a Legilimens could understand, an Occlumens could pretend to
be. It was the same trick either way—probably implemented by the same
neural circuitry in both cases, a single set of control circuits for
reconfiguring your own brain to act as a model of someone else’s.

And so the race between telepathic offense and telepathic defence had
been a decisive win for defence. Otherwise the entire magical world,
maybe even the whole Earth, would have been a very different place…

Harry took a deep breath, and concentrated. There was a slight smile on
his face.

For once, just once, Harry hadn’t been short-changed in the mysterious
powers department.

After almost a month of work, and more on a whim than any real hunch,
Harry had decided to make himself coldly angry and then try the book’s
Occlumency exercises again. At that point he’d mostly given up hope on
that sort of thing, but it had still seemed worth a quick try—

He’d run through all the book’s hardest exercises in two hours, and the
next day he’d gone and told Professor Quirrell he was ready.

His dark side, it had turned out, was very, very good at pretending to
be other people.

Harry thought of his standard trigger, from the first time he’d gone
over entirely to his dark side…

Severus paused, looking quite pleased with himself. “And that will be…
five points? No, let us make it an even ten points from Ravenclaw for
backchat.”

Harry’s smile grew chillier, and he regarded the black-robed man who
thought he was going to read Harry’s mind.

And then Harry turned into someone else entirely, someone who had seemed
appropriate to the occasion.

…in a white room, windowless, featureless, sitting before a desk, facing
an expressionless man in formal robes of solid black.

Kimball Kinnison regarded the black-robed man who thought he was going
to read the mind of a Second-Stage Lensman of the Galactic Patrol.

To say that Kimball Kinnison was confident of the outcome would be an
understatement. He had been trained by Mentor of Arisia, the most
powerful mind known to this or any other universe, and the mere wizard
sitting across from him would see precisely what the Gray Lensman wanted
him to see…

…the mind of the boy he was currently disguised as, an innocent child
named Harry Potter.

“I’m ready,” said Kimball Kinnison in nervous tones that were exactly
appropriate for an eleven-year-old boy.

“Legilimens,” said the black-robed wizard.

There was a pause.

The black-robed wizard blinked, as if he’d seen something so shocking
that it had been enough to make even his eyelids move. His voice wasn’t
quite toneless as he said, “The Boy-Who-Lived has a mysterious dark
side?”

The heat slowly crept up into Harry’s cheeks.

“Well,” the man said. His face had now settled back into perfect calm.
“Excuse me. Mr Potter, it is good to know your advantages, but that is
not the same as being wildly overconfident in them. You may indeed be
able to learn Occlumency at eleven years of age. This astounds me. I had
thought Mr Dumbledore was pretending to be insane again. Your
dissociative talent is so strong that I am surprised to find no other
signs of childhood abuse, and you may become a perfect Occlumens in
time. But there is a considerable difference between that and expecting
to put up a successful Occlumency barrier on your first attempt. That is
merely ridiculous. Did you feel anything as I read your mind?”

Harry shook his head, now blushing furiously.

“Then pay closer attention next time. The goal is not to create a
perfect image on your first day of lessons. The goal is to learn where
your surfaces are. Prepare yourself.”

Harry tried to pretend to be Kimball Kinnison again, tried to pay more
attention, but his thoughts were a little scattered and he was suddenly
aware of all the things he shouldn’t be thinking about…

Oh, this was going to suck.

Harry gritted his teeth. At least the instructor would be Obliviated
afterwards.

“Legilimens.”

There was a pause—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

…in a white room, windowless, featureless, sitting before a desk, facing
an expressionless man in formal robes of solid black.

It was their fourth day, on a Sunday evening. When you paid this much,
you got your sessions any darned time you wanted, never mind the concept
of weekends.

“Hello, Mr Potter,” the telepath said tonelessly, having cast the full
suite of privacy spells.

“Hello, Mr Bester,” Harry said wearily. “Let’s just get the initial
shock out of the way, shall we?”

“You managed to surprise me?” the man said, now sounding slightly
interested. “Well then.” He pointed his wand and stared into Harry’s
eyes. “Legilimens.”

There was a pause, and then the black-robed wizard jerked as if someone
had touched him with a cattle prod.

“The Dark Lord is alive?” he choked. His eyes were suddenly wild.
“Dumbledore turns himself invisible and sneaks into girls’ dorms?”

Harry sighed and looked down at his watch. In about another three
seconds…

“So,” the man said. He hadn’t quite recovered his tonelessness. “You
genuinely believe you’re going to discover the secret rules of magic and
become all-powerful.”

“That’s right,” Harry said evenly, still looking at his watch. “I’m that
overconfident.”

“I wonder. It seems the Sorting Hat thinks you’ll be the next Dark
Lord.”

“And you know I’m trying pretty hard not to be, and you saw that we
already had a long discussion about whether you were willing to teach me
Occlumency, and in the end you decided to do it, so can we just get this
over with?”

“All right,” said the man exactly six seconds later, same as last time.
“Prepare yourself.” He paused, and then said, his voice rather wistful,
“Though I do wish I could remember that trick with the gold and silver.”

Harry was finding himself very disturbed by how reproducible human
thoughts were when you reset people back to the same initial conditions
and exposed them to the same stimuli. It was dispelling illusions that a
good reductionist wasn’t supposed to have in the first place.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry was in a rather bad mood as he stomped out of his Herbology class
the next Monday morning.

Hermione was seething alongside him.

The other children were still inside, a bit slow to assemble their
things because they were gibbering excitedly to each other about
Ravenclaw winning the year’s second Quidditch match.

It seemed that last night after dinner, a girl had flown around on a
broomstick for thirty minutes and then caught some sort of giant
mosquito. There were other facts about what had happened during this
match, but they were irrelevant.

Harry had missed this exciting sports event due to his Occlumency
lesson, and also having a life.

He had then avoided all conversations in the Ravenclaw dorm, weren’t
Quieting Charms and magical trunks wonderful. He had eaten breakfast at
the Gryffindor table.

But Harry couldn’t avoid Herbology, and the Ravenclaws had talked about
it before class, and after class, and during class, until Harry had
looked up from the baby furcot whose diaper he was changing, and
announced loudly that some of them were trying to learn about plants and
Snitches didn’t grow on anything so could they all please shut up about
Quidditch. Everyone else present had given him shocked looks, except
Hermione, who’d looked like she wanted to applaud, and Professor Sprout,
who had awarded him a point for Ravenclaw.

A point for Ravenclaw.

One point.

The seven idiots on their idiot brooms playing their idiot game had
earned one hundred and ninety points for Ravenclaw.

It seemed that Quidditch scores added directly onto the House points
total.

In other words, catching a golden mosquito was worth 150 House points.

Harry couldn’t even imagine what he would have to do to earn one hundred
and fifty House points.

Besides, y’know, rescuing a hundred and fifty Hufflepuffs, or coming up
with fifteen ideas as good as putting protective shells on time
machines, or inventing one thousand five hundred creative ways to kill
people, or being Hermione Granger for the entire year.

“We should kill them,” Harry said to Hermione, who was walking beside
him with an equally offended air.

“Who?” said Hermione. “The Quidditch team?”

“I was thinking of everyone involved in any way with Quidditch anywhere,
but the Ravenclaw team would be a start, yes.”

Hermione’s lips were pursed disapprovingly. “You do know that killing
people is wrong, Harry?”

“Yes,” Harry said.

“Okay, just checking,” Hermione said. “Let’s get the Seeker first. I’ve
read some Agatha Christie mysteries, do you know how we can get her onto
a train?”

“Two students plotting murder,” said a dry voice. “How shocking.”

From around a nearby corner strolled a man in lightly spotted robes, his
greasy hair falling long and unkempt about his shoulders. Deadly danger
seemed to radiate out from him, filling the hallway with improperly
mixed potions and accidental falls and people dying in bed of what the
Aurors would rule to be natural causes.

Without thinking about it at all, Harry stepped in front of Hermione.

There was an intake of breath from behind him, and then a moment later
Hermione brushed past and stepped in front of him. “Run, Harry!” she
said. “Boys shouldn’t have to be in danger.”

Severus Snape smiled mirthlessly. “Amusing. I request a moment of your
time, Potter, if you can tear yourself away from your flirtations with
Miss Granger.”

Suddenly there was a very worried look on Hermione’s face. She turned to
Harry and opened her mouth, then paused, looking distressed.

“Oh, don’t worry, Miss Granger,” said Severus’s silky voice. “I promise
to return your beau unmaimed.” His smile vanished. “Now Potter and I are
about to go off and have a private conversation, just by ourselves. I
hope it is clear that you are not invited, but just in case, consider
that an order from a Hogwarts professor. I’m sure a good little girl
like you won’t disobey.”

And Severus turned and walked back around the corner. “Coming, Potter?”
his voice said.

“Um,” Harry said to Hermione. “Can I just sort of go off and follow him
and let you work out what I should say to make sure you’re not all
worried and offended?”

“No,” Hermione said, her voice trembling.

Severus’s laughter echoed from around the corner.

Harry bowed his head. “Sorry,” he said quietly, “really,” and he went
off after the Potions Master.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“So,” Harry said. There were no other sounds now but two pairs of legs,
the long and the short, padding across a random stone corridor. The
Potions Master was striding quickly but not too fast for Harry to keep
up, and insofar as Harry could apply the concept of directionality to
Hogwarts, they were moving away from the frequented areas. “What’s this
about?”

“I don’t suppose you could explain,” Severus said dryly, “why the two of
you were plotting to murder Cho Chang?”

“I don’t suppose you could explain,” Harry said dryly, “in your capacity
as an official of the Hogwarts school system, why catching a golden
mosquito is deemed an academic accomplishment worthy of a hundred and
fifty House points?”

A smile crossed Severus’s lips. “Dear me, and I thought you were
supposed to be perceptive. Are you truly so incapable of understanding
your classmates, Potter, or do you dislike them too much to try? If
Quidditch scores did not count toward the House Cup then none of them
would care about House points at all. It would merely be an obscure
contest for students like you and Miss Granger.”

It was a shockingly good answer.

And that shock brought Harry’s mind fully awake.

In retrospect it shouldn’t have been surprising that Severus understood
his students, understood them very well indeed.

He had been reading their minds.

And…

…the book said that a successful Legilimens was extremely rare, rarer
than a perfect Occlumens, because almost no-one had enough mental
discipline.

Mental discipline?

Harry had collected stories about a man who routinely lost his temper in
class and blew up at young children.

…but this same man, when Harry had spoken of the Dark Lord still being
alive, had responded instantly and perfectly—reacting in precisely the
way that someone completely ignorant would react.

The man stalked about Hogwarts with the air of an assassin, radiating
danger…

…which was exactly not what a real assassin should do. Real assassins
should look like meek little accountants until they killed you.

He was the Head of House for proud and aristocratic Slytherin, and he
wore a robe with spotted stains from bits of potions and ingredients,
which two minutes of magic could have removed.

Harry noticed that he was confused.

And his threat estimate of the Head of House Slytherin shot up
astronomically.

Dumbledore had seemed to think Severus was his, and there’d been nothing
to contradict that; the Potions Master had been “scary but not abusive”,
as promised. So, Harry had reasoned earlier, this was Fellowship
business. If Severus had been planning harm, surely he wouldn’t have
come to get Harry in front of Hermione, a witness, when he could have
simply waited for some time when Harry was alone…

Harry quietly bit his lip.

“I once knew a boy who truly adored Quidditch,” said Severus Snape. “He
was an utter pillock. Just as you and I would expect, we two.”

“What is this?” Harry said slowly.

“Patience, Potter.”

Severus turned his head, and then glided with his assassin’s bearing
into a nearby opening in the corridor walls, a smaller and narrower
hallway leading off.

Harry followed him, wondering if it would be smarter to simply run away.

They turned and made another turn, and came to a dead end, a simple
blank wall. If Hogwarts had actually been built, rather than conjured or
summoned or birthed or whatever, Harry would have had some sharp words
for the architect about paying people to build hallways that didn’t go
anywhere.

“Quietus,” said Severus, and a few other things as well.

Harry leaned back, folded his arms across his chest, and watched
Severus’s face.

“Looking me in the eyes, Potter?” said Severus Snape. “Your Occlumency
lessons cannot have progressed far enough for you to block Legilimency.
But then perhaps they have progressed far enough for you to detect it.
Since I cannot know otherwise, I will not risk trying.” The man smiled
thinly. “And the same will hold for Dumbledore, I think. Which is why we
are now having this little talk.”

Harry’s eyes widened involuntarily.

“To begin with,” Severus said, eyes glittering, “I should like you to
promise not to speak of our conversations to anyone. So far as the
school is concerned, we are discussing your Potions homework. Whether or
not they believe that is unimportant. So far as Dumbledore and
McGonagall are concerned, I am violating Draco Malfoy’s confidences in
me, and neither of us think it proper to speak further of the
particulars.”

Harry’s brain tried to calculate the ramifications and implications of
this and ran out of swap space.

“Well?” said the Potions Master.

“All right,” Harry said slowly. It was hard to see how having a
conversation and being unable to tell anyone could be more constraining
than not having it, in which case you also couldn’t tell anyone the
contents. “I promise.”

Severus was watching Harry intently. “You said once in the Headmaster’s
office that you would not tolerate bullying or abuse. And so I wonder,
Harry Potter. Just how much do you resemble your father?”

“Unless we’re talking about Michael Verres-Evans,” Harry said, “the
answer is that I know very little about James Potter.”

Severus nodded, as though to himself. “There is a fifth-year Slytherin.
A boy named Lesath Lestrange. He is being bullied by Gryffindors. I am…
constrained, in my ability to deal with such situations. You could help
him, perhaps. If you wished. I am not asking you for a favour, and will
not owe you one. It is simply an opportunity to do as you will.”

Harry stared at Severus, thinking.

“Wondering if it’s a trap?” said Severus, a faint smile crossing his
lips. “It is not. It is a test. Call it curiosity on my part. But
Lesath’s troubles are real, as are my own difficulties in intervening.”

That was the trouble with other people knowing you were a good guy. Even
if you knew they knew, you still couldn’t ignore the bait.

And if his father had protected students from bullies too… it didn’t
matter if Harry knew why Severus had told him. It still made him feel
warm inside, and proud, and made it impossible to walk away.

“Fine,” Harry said. “Tell me about Lesath. Why is he being bullied?”

Severus’s face lost the faint smile. “You think there are reasons,
Potter?”

“Perhaps not,” Harry said quietly. “But the thought had occurred to me
that he might have pushed some unimportant mudblood girl down the
stairs.”

“Lesath Lestrange,” Severus said, his voice now cold, “is the son of
Bellatrix Black, the most fanatic and evil servant of the Dark Lord.
Lesath is the acknowledged bastard of Rabastan Lestrange. Shortly after
the Dark Lord’s death, Bellatrix and Rabastan and Rabastan’s brother
Rodolphus were captured while torturing Alice and Frank Longbottom. All
three are in Azkaban for life. The Longbottoms were driven insane by
repeated Cruciatus and remain in St. Mungo’s incurable ward. Is any of
that a good reason to bully him, Potter?”

“It is no reason at all,” Harry said, still quietly. “And Lesath himself
has done no wrong that you know?”

The faint smile crossed Severus’s lips again. “He is no more a saint
than anyone else. But he has pushed no mudblood girls down the stairs,
not that I ever heard.”

“Or saw in his mind,” said Harry.

Severus’s expression was chill. “I did not invade his privacy, Potter. I
looked within the Gryffindors, rather. He is simply a convenient target
for their little satisfactions.”

A cold wash of anger ran down Harry’s spine, and he had to remind
himself that Severus might not be a trustworthy source of information.

“And you think,” Harry said, “that an intervention by Harry Potter, the
Boy-Who-Lived, might prove effective.”

“Indeed,” said Severus Snape, and told Harry when and where the
Gryffindors were planning their next little game.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a main hallway running through the middle of Hogwarts’s second
floor on the north-south axis, and near the centre of this hallway there
is an opening into a short corridor which goes a dozen paces back before
turning at a right angle, making an L-shape, and then goes a dozen paces
more before it ends at a bright, wide window, looking out from three
stories above upon the light drizzle falling over the east grounds of
Hogwarts. Standing by the window you can hear nothing of the main
hallway, and no-one in the hallway would hear what went on by the
window. If you think there is anything odd about this, you haven’t been
in Hogwarts very long.

Four boys in red-trimmed robes are laughing, and a boy in green-trimmed
robes is screaming and grabbing frantically onto the edges of the opened
window with his hands, as the four boys make as though to push him out.
It’s just a joke, of course, and besides, a fall from that height
wouldn’t kill a wizard. All good fun. If you think there is anything odd
about this—

“What are you doing?” says a sixth boy’s voice.

The four boys in red-trimmed robes spin around with sudden starts, and
the boy in green-trimmed robes frantically pushes himself away from the
window and falls to the floor, face streaked with tears.

“Oh,” says the most handsome of the boys in red-trimmed robes, sounding
relieved, “it’s you. Hey, Lessy, you know who this is?”

There isn’t any answer from the boy on the floor, who’s trying to get
his sniffling under control, and the boy in the red-trimmed robes draws
back his leg for a kick—

“Stop it!” shouts the sixth boy.

The boy in the red-trimmed robes wobbles as he aborts the kick. “Um,” he
says, “do you know who this is?”

The sixth boy’s breathing sounds strange. “Lesath Lestrange,” he says,
his breath coming in short pants, “and he didn’t do anything to my
parents, he was five years old.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neville Longbottom stared at the four huge fifth-year bullies in front
of him, trying very hard to control his trembling.

He should have just told Harry Potter no.

“Why are you defending him?” said the handsome one, slowly, sounding
puzzled with the first hints of offense. “He’s a Slytherin. And a
Lestrange.”

“He’s a boy who lost his parents,” said Neville Longbottom. “I know how
that is.” He didn’t know where the words had come from. It sounded too
cool, like something Harry Potter would say.

The trembling went on, though.

“Who do you think you are?” said the handsome one, starting to sound
angry.

I am Neville, last scion of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Longbottom—

Neville couldn’t say it.

“I think he’s a traitor,” said one of the other Gryffindors, and there
was a sudden sinking sensation in Neville’s stomach.

He’d known it, he’d just known it. Harry Potter had been wrong after
all. Bullies wouldn’t stop only because Neville Longbottom told them to
stop.

The handsome one took a step forward, and the three others followed.

“So that’s how it is for you,” Neville said, amazed at how steady his
voice was. “It doesn’t matter to you if it’s Lesath Lestrange or Neville
Longbottom.”

Lesath Lestrange let out a sudden gasp, from where he was lying on the
floor.

“Evil is evil,” snarled the same boy who’d spoken before, “and if you’re
friends with evil, you’re evil too.”

The four took another step forward.

Lesath rose, wobbling, to his feet. His face was grey, and he took a few
steps forward, and leaned against the wall, and didn’t say anything. His
eyes were fixed on the turn in the hallway, the way out.

“Friends,” Neville said. Now his voice was going up a bit in pitch.
“Yes, I have friends. One of them is the Boy-Who-Lived.”

A couple of the Gryffindors looked suddenly worried. The handsome one
didn’t flinch. “Harry Potter isn’t here,” he said, his voice hard, “and
if he was, I don’t think he’d like to see a Longbottom defending a
Lestrange.”

And the Gryffindors took another long step forward, and behind them,
Lesath crept along the wall, waiting for his chance.

Neville swallowed, and raised his right hand with his thumb and
forefinger pressed together.

He shut his eyes, because Harry Potter had made him promise not to peek.

If this didn’t work, he was never trusting anyone again.

His voice came out surprisingly clear, considering.

“Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres. Harry
James Potter-Evans-Verres. By the debt that you owe me and the power of
your true name I summon you, I open the way for you, I call upon you to
manifest yourself before me.”

Neville snapped his fingers.

And then Neville opened his eyes.

Lesath Lestrange was staring at him.

The four Gryffindors were staring at him.

The handsome one started to chuckle, and that set off the other three.

“Was Harry Potter supposed to step around the corner or something?” said
the handsome one. “Aw. Looks like you’ve been stood up.”

The handsome one took a menacing step forward toward Neville.

The other three followed in lock-step.

“Ahem,” said Harry Potter from behind them, leaning against the wall by
the window, in the dead end of the hallway, which nobody could possibly
have reached without being seen.

If watching people scream always felt this good, Neville could sort of
understand why people became bullies.

Harry Potter stalked forward, placing himself between Lesath Lestrange
and the others. He swept his icy gaze across the boys in red-trimmed
robes, and then his eyes came to rest on the handsome one, the
ringleader. “Mr Carl Sloper,” said Harry Potter. “I believe I have
comprehended this situation fully. If Lesath Lestrange has ever
committed a single evil himself, rather than being born to the wrong
parents, the fact is not known to you. If I am mistaken in this,
Mr Sloper, I suggest you inform me at once.”

Neville saw the fear and awe on the other boys’ faces. He was feeling it
himself. Harry had claimed it would all be a trick, but how could it be?

“But he’s a Lestrange,” said the ringleader.

“He’s a boy who lost his parents,” Harry Potter said, his voice growing
even colder.

This time all three of the other Gryffindors flinched.

“So,” said Harry Potter. “You saw that Neville didn’t want you
tormenting an innocent boy on behalf of the Longbottoms. This failed to
move you. If I tell you that the Boy-Who-Lived also thinks you are in
the wrong, that what you did today was a terrible mistake, does that
make a difference?”

The ringleader took a step toward Harry.

The others did not follow him.

“Carl,” one of them said, swallowing. “Maybe we should go.”

“They say you’re going to be the next Dark Lord,” the ringleader said,
staring at Harry.

A grin crossed Harry Potter’s face. “They also say I’m secretly
betrothed to Ginevra Weasley and there’s a prophecy about us conquering
France.” The smile faded. “Since you’re determined to force the issue,
Mr Carl Sloper, let me make things clear. Leave Lesath alone. I will
know if you don’t.”

“So Lessy sneaked to you,” said the ringleader coldly.

“Sure,” said Harry Potter dryly, “and he also told me what you did today
after you left Charms class, in a private secluded place where no-one
could see you, with a certain Hufflepuff girl wearing a white ribbon in
her hair—”

The ringleader’s jaw dropped in shock.

“Eep,” said one of the other Gryffindors in a high-pitched voice, and
spun on his heels and ran around the corner. His footsteps rapidly
pattered away and faded.

And then there were six.

“Ah,” said Harry Potter, “there goes a slightly intelligent young man.
The rest of you could stand to learn from Bertram Kirke’s example,
before you get into, shall we say, trouble.”

“Are you threatening to sneak on us?” said the handsome Gryffindor, his
voice trying to be angry, and rather wavering. “Bad things happen to
sneaks.”

The other two Gryffindors started slowly moving back.

Harry Potter started laughing. “Oh, you did not just say that. Are you
really trying to intimidate me? Me? Now honestly, do you think you’re
scarier than Peregrine Derrick, Severus Snape or for that matter
You-Know-Who?”

Even the ringleader flinched at that.

Harry Potter raised his hand, fingers poised, and all three of the
Gryffindors leaped backward, and one of them blurted “Don’t—!”

“See,” said Harry Potter, “this is where I snap my fingers and you
become part of a hilariously amusing story that will be told with much
nervous laughter at dinner tonight. But the thing is, people I trust
keep telling me not to do that. Professor McGonagall told me I was
taking the easy way out of everything and Professor Quirrell says I need
to learn how to lose. So you remember that story where I let myself get
beaten up by some older Slytherins? We could do that. You could bully me
for a while and I could let you. Only you remember that part at the end
where I tell my many, many friends inside this school not to do anything
about it? This time we’ll skip that part. So go ahead. Bully me.”

Harry Potter stepped forward, his arms opened wide in invitation.

The three Gryffindors broke and ran, and Neville had to sidestep quickly
to avoid getting run over.

There was silence, as their footsteps faded, and then more silence after
that.

And then there were three.

Harry Potter drew a deep breath, then exhaled. “Whew,” he said. “How are
you doing, Neville?”

Neville’s voice came out in a high-pitched squeak. “Okay, that was
really cool.”

A grin flashed across Harry Potter’s face. “You were pretty cool too,
you know.”

Neville knew that Harry Potter was just saying that, trying to make him
feel good, and it still started a warm glow inside his chest.

Harry turned toward Lesath Lestrange—

“Are you okay, Lestrange?” said Neville before Harry could open his
mouth.

Now there was something you didn’t expect to find yourself saying, ever.

Lesath Lestrange turned slowly, and stared at Neville, his face tight,
no longer crying, tears glistening as they dried.

“You think you know how it is?” said Lesath, his voice high and shaking.
“You think you know? My parents are in Azkaban, I try not to think about
it and they always remind me, they think it’s great that Mother is there
in the cold and the dark with the Dementors sucking away her life, I
wish I was like Harry Potter, at least his parents aren’t hurting, my
parents are always hurting, every second of every day, I wish I was like
you, at least you can see your parents sometimes, at least you know they
loved you, if Mother ever loved me the Dementors will have eaten that
thought by now—”

Neville’s eyes were wide with shock. He hadn’t expected this.

Lesath turned to Harry Potter, whose eyes were full of horror.

Lesath flung himself on the floor in front of Harry Potter, touched his
forehead to the ground, and whispered, “Help me, Lord.”

There was an awful silence. Neville couldn’t think of a single thing to
say, and from the naked shock on Harry’s face, he couldn’t think of
anything either.

“They say you can do anything, please, please my Lord, get my parents
out of Azkaban, I’ll be your loyal servant forever, my life will be
yours and my death as well, only please—”

“Lesath,” Harry said, his voice breaking, “Lesath, I can’t, I can’t
really do things like that, it’s all just stupid tricks.”

“It’s not!” said Lesath, his voice high and desperate. “I saw it, the
stories are true, you can!”

Harry swallowed. “Lesath, I set the whole thing up with Neville, we
planned it all out in advance, ask him!”

They had, though Harry hadn’t said how he was going to do any of it…

When Lesath looked up from the floor his face was ghastly, and his voice
came out in a shriek that hurt Neville’s ears. “You son of a mudblood!
You could get her out, you just won’t! I got down on my knees and begged
you and you still won’t help! I should have known, you’re the
Boy-Who-Lived, you think she belongs there!”

“I can’t!” Harry said, his voice as desperate as Lesath’s. “It’s not a
question of what I want, I don’t have the power!”

Lesath rose to his feet, and spat on the floor in front of Harry, and
then turned and walked away. When he was around the corner the sound of
his feet sped up, and as they faded Neville thought he heard a single
sob.

And then there were two.

Neville looked at Harry.

Harry looked at Neville.

“Wow,” Neville said quietly. “He didn’t seem very grateful for being
rescued.”

“He thought I could help him,” Harry said, his voice hoarse. “He had
hope for the first time in years.”

Neville swallowed, and said it. “I’m sorry.”

“Wha?” said Harry, sounding totally confused.

“I wasn’t grateful when you helped me—”

“Every single thing you said before was completely right,” said the
Boy-Who-Lived.

“No,” Neville said, “it wasn’t.”

They simultaneously gave brief sad smiles, each condescending to the
other.

“I know this wasn’t real,” said Neville, “I know I couldn’t have done
anything if you hadn’t been here, but thanks for letting me pretend.”

“Give me a break,” said Harry.

Harry had turned from Neville, and was staring out the window at the
gloomy clouds.

A completely ridiculous thought came to Neville. “Are you feeling guilty
because you can’t get Lesath’s parents out of Azkaban?”

“No,” said Harry.

A few seconds went by.

“Yes,” said Harry.

“You’re silly,” said Neville.

“I am aware of this,” said Harry.

“Do you have to do literally anything anyone asks you?”

The Boy-Who-Lived turned back and looked at Neville again. “Do? No. Feel
guilty about not doing? Yes.”

Neville was having trouble finding words. “Once the Dark Lord died,
Bellatrix Black was literally the most evil person in the entire world
and that was before she went to Azkaban. She tortured my mother and
father into insanity because she wanted to find out what happened to the
Dark Lord—”

“I know,” Harry said quietly. “I get that, but—”

“No! You don’t! She had a reason for doing that, and my parents were
both Aurors! It’s not even close to the worst thing she’s ever done!”
Neville’s voice was shaking.

“Even so,” said the Boy-Who-Lived, his eyes distant as they stared off
into somewhere else, some other place that Neville couldn’t imagine.
“There might be some incredibly clever solution that makes it possible
to save everyone and let them all live happily ever after, and if only I
was smart enough I would have thought of it by now—”

“You have problems,” said Neville. “You think you ought to be what
Lesath Lestrange thinks you are.”

“Yeah,” said the Boy-Who-Lived, “that pretty much nails it. Every time
someone cries out in prayer and I can’t answer, I feel guilty about not
being God.”

Neville didn’t quite understand that, but… “That doesn’t sound good.”

Harry sighed. “I understand that I have a problem, and I know what I
need to do to solve it, all right? I’m working on it.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry watched Neville leave.

Of course Harry hadn’t said what the solution was.

The solution, obviously, was to hurry up and become God.

Neville’s footsteps moved off, and soon could no longer be heard.

And then there was one.

“Ahem,” said Severus Snape’s voice from directly behind him.

Harry let out a small scream and instantly hated himself.

Slowly, Harry turned around.

The tall greasy man in the spotted robes was leaning against the wall in
the same position Harry had occupied.

“A fine invisibility cloak, Potter,” drawled the Potions Master. “Much
is explained.”

Oh, bloody crap.

“And perhaps I have been in Dumbledore’s company too long,” said
Severus, “but I cannot help but wonder if that is the Cloak of
Invisibility.”

Harry immediately turned into someone who’d never heard of the Cloak of
Invisibility and who was exactly as smart as Harry thought Severus
thought Harry was.

“Oh, possibly,” said Harry. “I trust you realize the implications, if it
is?”

Severus’s voice was condescending. “You have no idea what I’m talking
about, do you, Potter? A rather clumsy try at fishing.”

(Professor Quirrell had remarked over their lunch that Harry really
needed to conceal his state of mind better than putting on a blank face
when someone discussed a dangerous topic, and had explained about
one-level deceptions, two-level deceptions, and so on. So either Severus
was in fact modelling Harry as a one-level player, which made Severus
himself two-level, and Harry’s three-level move had been successful; or
Severus was a four-level player and wanted Harry to think the deception
had been successful. Harry, smiling, had asked Professor Quirrell what
level he played at, and Professor Quirrell, also smiling, had responded,
One level higher than you.)

“So you were watching this whole time,” said Harry. “Disillusionment, I
think it’s called.”

A thin smile. “It would have been foolish of me to take the slightest
risk that you came to harm.”

“And you wanted to see the results of your test first hand,” said Harry.
“So. Am I like my father?”

A strange sad expression came over the man, one that looked foreign to
his face. “I should sooner say, Harry Potter, that you resemble—”

Severus stopped short.

He stared at Harry.

“Lestrange called you a son of a mudblood,” Severus said slowly. “It
didn’t seem to bother you much.”

Harry furrowed his eyebrows. “Not under those circumstances, no.”

“You’d just helped him,” Severus said. His eyes were intent on Harry.
“And he threw it back in your face. Surely that isn’t something you’d
just forgive?”

“He’d just been through a pretty harrowing experience,” Harry said. “And
I don’t think being rescued by first-years helped his pride much,
either.”

“I suppose it was easy enough to forgive,” Severus said, and his voice
was odd, “since Lestrange means nothing to you. Just some strange
Slytherin. If it was a friend, perhaps, you would have felt far more
injured by what he said.”

“If he were a friend,” Harry said, “all the more reason to forgive him.”

There was a long silence. Harry felt, and he couldn’t have said why or
from where, that the air was filling up with a dreadful tension, like
water rising, and rising, and rising.

Then Severus smiled, looking suddenly relaxed once more, and all the
tension vanished.

“You are a very forgiving person,” Severus said, still smiling. “I
suppose your stepfather, Michael Verres-Evans, was the one who taught it
to you.”

“More like Dad’s science-fiction and fantasy collection,” said Harry.
“Sort of my fifth parent, really. I’ve lived the lives of all the
characters in all my books, and all their mighty wisdom thunders in my
head. Somewhere in there was someone like Lesath, I expect, though I
couldn’t say who. It wasn’t hard to put myself in his shoes. And it was
my books that told me what to do about it, too. The good guys forgive.”

Severus gave a light, amused laugh. “I’m afraid I wouldn’t know much
about what good people do.”

Harry looked at him. That was kind of sad, actually. “I’ll lend you some
novels with good people in them, if you like.”

“I should like to ask your advice about something,” Severus said, his
voice casual. “I know of another fifth-year Slytherin who was being
bullied by Gryffindors. He was wooing a beautiful Muggle-born girl, who
came across him being bullied, and tried to rescue him. And he called
her a mudblood, and that was the end for them. He apologized, many
times, but she never forgave him. Have you any thoughts for what he
could have said or done, to win from her the forgiveness you gave
Lestrange?”

“Erm,” Harry said, “based on only that information, I’m not sure he was
the main one who had a problem. I’d have told him not to date someone
that incapable of forgiveness. Suppose they’d married, can you imagine
life in that household?”

There was a pause.

“Oh, but she could forgive,” Severus said with amusement in his voice.
“Why, afterwards, she went off and became the girlfriend of the bully.
Tell me, why would she forgive the bully, and not the bullied?”

Harry shrugged. “At a wild guess, because the bully had hurt someone
else very badly, and the bullied had hurt her just a little, and to her
that just felt far more unforgivable somehow. Or, not to put too fine a
point on it, was the bully handsome? Or for that matter, rich?”

There was another pause.

“Yes to both,” said Severus.

“And there you have it,” said Harry. “Not that I’ve ever been through
high school myself, but my books give me to understand that there’s a
certain kind of teenage girl who’ll be outraged by a single insult if
the boy is plain or poor, yet who can somehow find room in her heart to
forgive a rich and handsome boy his bullying. She was shallow, in other
words. Tell whoever it was that she wasn’t worthy of him and he needs to
get over it and move on and next time date girls who are deep instead of
pretty.”

Severus stared at Harry in silence, his eyes glittering. The smile had
faded, and though Severus’s face twitched, it did not return.

Harry was starting to feel a bit nervous. “Um, not that I’ve got any
experience in the area myself, obviously, but I think that’s what a wise
adviser from my books would say.”

There was more silence and more glittering.

It was probably a good time to change the subject.

“So,” Harry said. “Did I pass your test, whatever it was?”

“I think,” Severus said, “that there should be no more conversations
between us, Potter, and you would be exceedingly wise never to speak of
this one.”

Harry blinked. “Would you mind telling me what I did wrong?”

“You offended me,” said Severus. “And I no longer trust your cunning.”

Harry stared at Severus, taken rather aback.

“But you have given me well-meant advice,” said Severus Snape, “and so I
will give you true advice in return.” His voice was almost perfectly
steady. Like a string stretched almost perfectly horizontal, despite the
massive weight hanging from its middle, by a million tons of tension
pulling at either end. “You almost died today, Potter. In the future,
never share your wisdom with anyone unless you know exactly what you are
both talking about.”

Harry’s mind finally made the connection.

“You were that—”

Harry’s mouth snapped shut as the almost died part sank in, two seconds
too late.

“Yes,” said Severus, “I was.”

And the terrible tension flooded back into the room like water
pressurized at the bottom of the ocean.

Harry couldn’t breathe.

Lose. Now.

“I didn’t know,” Harry whispered. “I’m s—”

“No,” said Severus. Just that one word.

Harry stood there in silence, his mind frantically searching for
options. Severus stood between him and the window, which was a real
pity, because a fall from that height wouldn’t kill a wizard.

“Your books betrayed you, Potter,” said Severus, still in that voice
stretched tight by a million tons of pull. “They did not tell you the
one thing you needed to know. You cannot learn from stories what it is
like to lose the one you love. That is something you could never
understand without feeling it yourself.”

“My father,” Harry whispered. It was his best guess, the one thing that
might save him. “My father tried to protect you from the bullies.”

A ghastly smile stretched across Severus’s face, and the man moved
toward Harry.

And past him.

“Goodbye, Potter,” said Severus, not looking back on his way out. “We
shall have little to say to each other from today on.”

And at the corner, the man stopped, and without turning, spoke one final
time.

“Your father was the bully,” said Severus Snape, “and what your mother
saw in him was something I never did understand until this day.”

He left.

Harry turned and walked toward the window. His shaking hands went onto
the ledge.

Never give anyone wise advice unless you know exactly what you’re both
talking about. Got it.

Harry stared out at the clouds and the light drizzle for a while. The
window looked out on the east grounds, and it was afternoon, so if the
sun was visible through the clouds at all, Harry couldn’t see it.

His hands had stopped shaking, but there was a tight feeling in Harry’s
chest, like it was being compressed by metal bands.

So his father had been a bully.

And his mother had been shallow.

Maybe they’d grown up later. Good people like Professor McGonagall did
seem to think the world of them, and it might not be only because they
were heroic martyrs.

Of course, that was scant consolation when you were eleven and about to
turn into a teenager, and wondering what sort of teenager you might
become.

So very terrible.

So very sad.

Such an awful life Harry led.

Learning that his genetic parents hadn’t been perfect, why, he ought to
spend awhile moping about that, feeling sorry for himself.

Maybe he could complain to Lesath Lestrange.

Harry had read about Dementors. Cold and darkness surrounded them, and
fear, they sucked away all your happy thoughts and in that absence all
your worst memories rose to the surface.

He could imagine himself in Lesath’s shoes, knowing that his parents
were in Azkaban for life, that place from which no-one had ever escaped.

And Lesath would be imagining himself in his mother’s place, in the cold
and the darkness and the fear, alone with all of her worst memories,
even in her dreams, every second of every day.

For an instant Harry imagined his own Mum and Dad in Azkaban with the
Dementors sucking out their life, draining away the happy memories of
their love for him. Just for an instant, before his imagination blew a
fuse and called an emergency shutdown and told him never to imagine that
again.

Was it right to do that to anyone, even the second most evil person in
the world?

No, said the wisdom of Harry’s books, not if there’s any other way, any
other way at all.

And unless the wizarding justice system was as perfect as their
prisons—and that sounded rather improbable, all things
considered—somewhere in Azkaban was a person who was entirely innocent,
and probably more than one.

There was a burning sensation in Harry’s throat, and moisture gathering
in his eyes, and he wanted to teleport all of Azkaban’s prisoners to
safety and call down fire from the sky and blast that terrible place
down to bedrock. But he couldn’t, because he wasn’t God.

And Harry remembered what Professor Quirrell had said beneath the
starlight: Sometimes, when this flawed world seems unusually hateful, I
wonder whether there might be some other place, far away, where I should
have been… But the stars are so very, very far away… And I wonder what I
would dream about, if I slept for a long, long time.

Right now this flawed world seemed unusually hateful.

And Harry couldn’t understand Professor Quirrell’s words, it might have
been an alien that had spoken, or an Artificial Intelligence, something
built along such different lines from Harry that his brain couldn’t be
forced to operate in that mode.

You couldn’t leave your home planet while it still contained a place
like Azkaban.

You had to stay and fight.

28. Reductionism

E. Y.: Whatever can go Rowling will go Rowling.

This should again go without saying, but views expressed by Severus
Snape are not necessarily those of the author.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“OKAY,” Harry said, swallowing. “Okay, Hermione, it’s enough, you can
stop.”

The white sugar pill in front of Hermione still hadn’t changed shape or
colour at all, even though she was concentrating harder than Harry had
ever seen, her eyes squeezed shut, beads of sweat on her forehead, hand
trembling as it gripped the wand—

“Hermione, stop! It’s not going to work, Hermione, I don’t think we can
make things that don’t exist yet!”

Slowly, Hermione’s hand relaxed its grasp on the wand.

“I thought I felt it,” she said in a bare whisper. “I thought I felt it
start to Transfigure, just for a second.”

There was a lump in Harry’s throat. “You were probably imagining it.
Hoping too hard.”

“I probably was,” she said. She looked like she wanted to cry.

Slowly, Harry took his mechanical pencil in his hand, and reached over
to the sheet of paper with all the items crossed out, and drew a line
through the item that said ‘ALZHEIMER’S CURE’.

They couldn’t have fed anyone a Transfigured pill. But Transfiguration,
at least the kind they could do, didn’t enchant the targets—it wouldn’t
Transfigure a regular broomstick into a flying one. So if Hermione had
been able to make a pill at all, it would have been a non-magical pill,
one that worked for ordinary material reasons. They could have secretly
made pills for a Muggle science lab, let them study the pills and try to
reverse-engineer them before the Transfiguration wore off… no-one in
either world would need to know that magic had been involved, it would
just be another scientific breakthrough…

It hadn’t been the sort of thing a wizard would think of, either. They
didn’t respect mere patterns of atoms that much, they didn’t think of
unenchanted material things as objects of power. If it wasn’t magical,
it wasn’t interesting.

Earlier, Harry had very secretly—he hadn’t even told Hermione—tried to
Transfigure nanotechnology a la Eric Drexler. (He’d tried to produce a
desktop nanofactory, of course, not tiny self-replicating assemblers,
Harry wasn’t insane.) It would have been godhood in a single shot if
it’d worked.

“That was it for today, right?” said Hermione. She was slumped back in
her chair, leaning her head against the back; and her face showed her
tiredness, which was very unusual for Hermione. She liked to pretend she
was limitless, at least when Harry was around.

“One more,” Harry said cautiously, “but that one’s small, plus it might
actually work. I saved it for last because I was hoping we could end on
an up note. It’s real stuff, not like phasers. They’ve already made it
in the laboratory, not like the Alzheimer’s cure. And it’s a generic
substance, not specific like the lost books you tried to Transfigure
copies of. I made a diagram of the molecular structure to show you. We
just want to make it longer than it’s ever been made before, and with
all the tubes aligned, and the endpoints embedded in diamond.” Harry
produced a sheet of graph paper.

Hermione sat back up, took it, and studied it, frowning. “These are all
carbon atoms? And Harry, what’s the name? I can’t Transfigure it if I
don’t know what it’s called.”

Harry made a disgusted face. He was still having trouble getting used to
that sort of thing, it shouldn’t matter what something was named if you
knew what it was. “They’re called buckytubes, or carbon nanotubes. It’s
a kind of fullerene that was discovered just this year. It’s about a
hundred times stronger than steel and a sixth of the weight.”

Hermione looked up from the graph paper, her face surprised. “That’s
real?”

“Yeah,” Harry said, “just hard to make the Muggle way. If we could get
enough of the stuff, we could use it to build a space elevator all the
way up to geosynchronous orbit or higher, and in terms of delta-v that’s
halfway to anywhere in the Solar System. Plus we could throw out solar
power satellites like confetti.”

Hermione was frowning again. “Is this stuff safe?”

“I don’t see why it wouldn’t be,” Harry said. “A buckytube is just a
graphite sheet wrapped into a circular tube, basically, and graphite is
the same stuff used in pencils—”

“I know what graphite is, Harry,” Hermione said. She brushed her hair
back absent-mindedly, her eyebrows furrowed as she stared at the sheet
of paper.

Harry reached into a pocket of his robes, and produced a white thread
tied to two small grey plastic rings at either end. He’d added drops of
superglue where the thread met either ring, to make it all a single
object that could be Transfigured as a whole. Cyanoacrylate, if Harry
remembered correctly, worked by covalent bonds, and that was as close to
being a “solid object” as you ever got in a world ultimately composed of
tiny individual atoms. “When you’re ready,” Harry said, “try to
Transfigure this into a set of aligned buckytube fibres embedded in two
solid diamond rings.”

“All right…” Hermione said slowly. “Harry, I feel like I just missed
something.”

Harry shrugged helplessly. Maybe you’re just tired. He knew better than
to say it out loud, though.

Hermione laid her wand against one plastic ring, and stared for a while.

Two small circles of glittering diamond lay on the table, connected by a
long black thread.

“It changed,” said Hermione. She sounded like she was trying to be
enthusiastic but had run out of energy. “Now what?”

Harry felt a bit deflated by his research partner’s lack of passion, but
did his best not to show it; maybe the same process would work in
reverse to cheer her up. “Now I test it to see if it holds weight.”

There was an A-frame Harry had rigged up to do an earlier experiment
with diamond rods—you could make solid diamond objects easily, using
Transfiguration, they just wouldn’t last. The earlier experiment had
measured whether Transfiguring a long diamond rod into a shorter diamond
rod would allow it to lift a suspended heavy weight as it contracted,
i.e., could you Transfigure against tension, which you in fact could.

Harry carefully looped one circle of glittering diamond over the thick
metal hook at the top of the rig, then attached a thick metal hanger to
the bottom ring, and then started attaching weights to the hanger.

(Harry had asked the Weasley twins to Transfigure the apparatus for him,
and the Weasley twins had given him an incredulous look, like they
couldn’t figure out what sort of prank he could possibly want that for,
but they hadn’t asked any questions. And their Transfigurations,
according to them, lasted for around three hours, so Harry and Hermione
still had a while left.)

“One hundred kilograms,” Harry said about a minute later. “I don’t think
a steel thread this thin would hold that. It should go up much higher,
but that’s all the weight I’ve got.”

There was a further silence.

Harry straightened up, and went back to their table, and sat down in his
chair, and ceremoniously made a check mark next to ‘Buckytubes’.
“There,” Harry said. “That one worked.”

“But it’s not really useful, Harry, is it?” Hermione said from where she
was sitting with her head resting in her hands. “I mean, even if we gave
it to a scientist they couldn’t learn how to make lots of buckytubes
from studying ours.”

“They might be able to learn something,” Harry said. “Hermione, look at
it, that little tiny thread holding up all that weight, we just made
something that no Muggle laboratory could make—”

“But any other witch could make it,” Hermione said. Her exhaustion was
coming into her voice, now. “Harry, I don’t think this is working out.”

“You mean our relationship?” Harry said. “Great! Let’s break up.”

That got a slight grin out of her. “I mean our research.”

“Oh, Hermione, how could you?”

“You’re sweet when you’re mean,” she said. “But Harry, this is nuts, I’m
twelve, you’re eleven, it’s silly to think we’re going to discover
anything that no-one’s ever figured out before.”

“Are you really saying we should give up on unravelling the secrets of
magic after trying for less than one month?” Harry said, trying to put a
note of challenge into his voice. Honestly he was feeling some of the
same fatigue as Hermione. None of the good ideas ever worked. He’d made
just one discovery worth mentioning, the Mendelian pattern, and he
couldn’t tell Hermione about it without breaking his promise to Draco.

“No,” Hermione said. Her young face was looking very serious and adult.
“I’m saying right now we should be studying all the magic that wizards
already know, so we can do this sort of thing after we graduate from
Hogwarts.”

“Um…” Harry said. “Hermione, I hate to put it this way, but imagine we’d
decided to hold off on research until later, and the first thing we
tried after we graduated was Transfiguring an Alzheimer’s cure, and it
worked. We’d feel… I don’t think the word stupid would adequately
describe how we’d feel. What if there’s something else like that and it
does work?”

“That’s not fair, Harry!” Hermione said. Her voice was trembling like
she was on the verge of breaking out crying. “You can’t put that on
people! It’s not our job to do that sort of thing, we’re kids!”

For a moment Harry wondered what would happen if someone told Hermione
she had to fight an immortal Dark Lord, if she would turn into one of
the whiny self-pitying heroes that Harry could never stand reading about
in his books.

“Anyway,” Hermione said. Her voice shook. “I don’t want to keep doing
this. I don’t believe children can do things that grown-ups can’t,
that’s only in stories.”

There was silence in the classroom.

Hermione started to look a little scared, and Harry knew that his own
expression had cooled.

It might not have hurt so much if the same thought hadn’t already come
to Harry—that, while thirty might be old for a scientific revolutionary
and twenty about right, while there were people who got doctorates when
they were seventeen and fourteen-year-old heirs who’d been great kings
or generals, there wasn’t really anyone who’d made the history books at
eleven.

“All right,” Harry said. “Figure out how to do something a grown-up
can’t. Is that your challenge?”

“I didn’t mean it like that,” Hermione said, her voice coming out in a
frightened whisper.

With an effort, Harry wrenched his gaze away from Hermione. “I’m not
angry at you,” Harry said. His voice was cold, despite his best efforts.
“I’m angry at, I don’t know, everything. But I’m not willing to lose,
Hermione. Losing isn’t always the right thing to do. I’ll figure out how
to do something a grown wizard can’t do, and then I’ll get back to you.
How’s that?”

There was more silence.

“Okay,” said Hermione, her voice wavering a little. She pushed herself
up out of her chair, and went over to the door of the abandoned
classroom they’d been working in. Her hand went onto the doorknob.
“We’re still friends, right? And if you can’t figure out anything—”

Her voice halted.

“Then we’ll study together,” Harry said. His voice was even colder now.

“Um, bye for now, then,” Hermione said, and she quickly went out of the
room and shut the door behind her.

Sometimes Harry hated having a dark side, even when he was inside it.

And the part of him that had thought exactly the same thing as Hermione,
that no, children couldn’t do what grown-ups couldn’t, was saying all
the things that Hermione had been too frightened to say, like, That’s
one hell of a difficult challenge you just grabbed for yourself and boy
are you going to end up with egg on your face this time and at least
this way you’ll know you’ve failed.

And the part of him that didn’t enjoy losing replied, in a very cold
voice, Fine, you can shut up and watch.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was almost lunchtime, and Harry didn’t care. He hadn’t even bothered
grabbing a snack bar from his pouch. His stomach could stand a little
starving.

The wizarding world was tiny, they didn’t think like scientists, they
didn’t know science, they didn’t question what they’d grown up with,
they hadn’t put protective shells on their time machines, they played
Quidditch, all of magical Britain was smaller than a small Muggle city,
the greatest wizarding school only educated up to the age of seventeen,
silly wasn’t challenging that at eleven, silly was assuming wizards knew
what they were doing and had already exhausted all the low-hanging fruit
a scientific polymath would see.

Step One had been to make a list of every magical constraint Harry could
remember, all the things you supposedly couldn’t do.

Step Two, mark the constraints that seemed to make the least sense from
a scientific perspective.

Step Three, prioritize constraints that a wizard would be unlikely to
question if they didn’t know science.

Step Four, come up with avenues for attacking them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione still felt a little shaky as she sat down next to Mandy at the
Ravenclaw table. Hermione’s lunch had two fruits (tomato slices and
peeled tangerines), three vegetables (carrots, carrots, and more
carrots), one meat (fried Diricawl drumsticks whose unhealthy coating
she would carefully remove), and one little piece of chocolate cake that
she would earn by eating the other parts.

It hadn’t been as bad as Potions class, sometimes she still had
nightmares about that. But this time she had made it happen and she’d
felt like its target. Just for a moment, before the terrible cold
darkness looked away and said it wasn’t angry with her, because it
hadn’t wanted to scare her.

And she still had that feeling like she’d missed something earlier,
something really important.

But they hadn’t violated any of the rules of Transfiguration… had they?
They hadn’t made any liquids, any gases, they hadn’t taken orders from
the Defence Professor…

The pill! That had been something to be eaten!

…well, no, nobody would just eat a pill lying around, it hadn’t worked
actually, they could have just Finite Incantatemed it if it had, but she
would still have to tell Harry about that and make sure they didn’t
mention it in front of Professor McGonagall, in case they were never
allowed to study Transfiguration again…

Hermione was starting to get a really sick feeling in her stomach. She
pushed back her plate from the table, she couldn’t eat lunch like this.

And she closed her eyes and began to mentally recite the rules of
Transfiguration.

“I will never Transfigure anything into liquid or gas.”

“I will never Transfigure anything that looks like food or anything else
that goes inside a human body.”

No, they really shouldn’t have tried to Transfigure the pill, or they
should’ve at least realized… she’d been so caught up in Harry’s
brilliant idea that she hadn’t thought…

The sick feeling in Hermione’s stomach was getting worse. There was a
feeling in her mind of something hovering just on the edge of
recognition, a perception about to invert itself, a young woman about to
become a crone, a vase about to become two faces…

And she went on remembering the rules of Transfiguration.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry’s knuckles had gone white on his wand by the time he stopped
trying to Transfigure the air in front of his wand into a paperclip. It
wouldn’t have been safe to Transfigure the paperclip into gas, of
course, but Harry didn’t see any reason why it would be unsafe the other
way around. It just wasn’t supposed to be possible. But why not? Air was
as real a substance as anything else…

Well, maybe that limitation did make sense. Air was disorganized, all
the molecules constantly changing their relation to each other. Maybe
you couldn’t impose a new form on substance unless the substance was
staying still long enough for you to master it, even though the atoms in
solids were also constantly vibrating all the time…

The more Harry failed, the colder he felt, the clearer everything seemed
to become.

All right. Next on the list.

You could only Transfigure whole objects as wholes. You couldn’t
Transfigure half a match into a needle, you had to Transfigure the whole
thing. Back when Harry had been trapped in that classroom by Draco, it
had been the reason he couldn’t just Transfigure a thin cylindrical
cross-section of the walls into sponge, and punch out a chunk of stone
large enough for him to fit through the hole. He would have needed to
impose a new form on the whole wall, and maybe a whole section of
Hogwarts, just in order to change that little cross-section.

And that was ridiculous.

Things were made of atoms. Lots of little tiny dots. There was no
contiguity, there was no solidity, just electromagnetic forces holding
the little dots related to each other…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mandy Brocklehurst paused with her fork on her way to her mouth. “Huh,”
she said to Su Li, sitting across from the now-empty space beside her,
“what got into Hermione?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry wanted to kill his eraser.

He’d been trying to change a single spot on the pink rectangle into
steel, apart from the rest of the rubber, and the eraser wasn’t
cooperating.

It had to be a conceptual limitation, not a real one. Had to be.

Things were made of atoms, and every atom was a tiny separate thing.
Atoms were held together by a quantum mist of shared electrons, for
covalent bonds, or sometimes just magnetism at close ranges, for ionic
bonds or van der Waals forces.

If it came down to that, the protons and neutrons inside the nuclei were
tiny separate things. The quarks inside the protons and neutrons were
tiny separate things! There simply wasn’t anything in reality, the
world-out-there, that corresponded to people’s conceit of solid objects.
It was all just little dots.

And free Transfiguration was all in the mind to begin with, wasn’t it?
No words, no gestures. Only the pure concept of form, kept strictly
separate from substance, imposed on the substance, conceived of apart
from its form. That and the wand and whatever made you a wizard.

The wizards couldn’t transform parts of things, could only transform
what their minds perceived as wholes, because they didn’t know in their
bones that it was all just atoms deep down.

Harry had focused on that knowledge as hard as he could, the true fact
that the eraser was just a collection of atoms, everything was just
collections of atoms, and the atoms of the little patch he was trying to
Transfigure formed just as valid a collection as any other collection he
cared to think about.

And Harry still hadn’t been able to change that single part of the
eraser, the Transfiguration wasn’t going anywhere.

This. Was. Ridiculous.

Harry’s knuckles were whitening on his wand again. He was sick of
getting experimental results that didn’t make sense.

Maybe the fact that some part of his mind was still thinking in terms of
objects was stopping the Transfiguration from going through. He had
thought of a collection of atoms that was an eraser. He had thought of a
collection that was a little patch.

Time to kick it up a notch.

Harry pressed his wand harder against that tiny section of eraser, and
tried to see through the illusion that non-scientists thought was
reality, the world of desks and chairs, air and erasers and people.

When you walked through a park, the immersive world that surrounded you
was something that existed inside your own brain as a pattern of neurons
firing. The sensation of a bright-blue sky wasn’t something high above
you, it was something in your visual cortex, and your visual cortex was
in the back of your brain. All the sensations of that bright world were
really happening in that quiet cave of bone you called your skull, the
place where you lived and never, ever left. If you really wanted to say
hello to someone, to the actual person, you wouldn’t shake their hand,
you’d knock gently on their skull and say “How are you doing in there?”
That was what people were, that was where they really lived. And the
picture of the park that you thought you were walking through was
something that was visualized inside your brain as it processed the
signals sent down from your eyes and retina.

It wasn’t a lie like the Buddhists thought, there wasn’t something
terribly mystical and unexpected behind the veil of Maya, what lay
beyond the illusion of the park was just the actual park, but it was all
still illusion.

Harry wasn’t sitting inside the classroom.

He wasn’t looking at the eraser.

Harry was inside Harry’s skull.

He was experiencing a processed picture his brain had decoded from the
signals sent down by his retina.

The real eraser was somewhere else, somewhere that wasn’t the picture.

And the real eraser wasn’t like the picture Harry’s brain had of it. The
idea of the eraser as a solid object was something that existed only
inside his own brain, inside the parietal cortex that processed his
sense of shape and space. The real eraser was a collection of atoms held
together by electromagnetic forces and shared covalent electrons, while
nearby, air molecules bounced off each other and bounced off the
eraser-molecules.

The real eraser was far away, and Harry, inside his skull, could never
quite touch it, could only imagine ideas about it. But his wand had the
power, it could change things out there in reality, it was only Harry’s
own preconceptions that were limiting it. Somewhere beyond the veil of
Maya, the truth behind Harry’s concept of “my wand” was touching the
collection of atoms that Harry’s mind thought of as “a patch on the
eraser”, and if that wand could change the collection of atoms that
Harry considered “the whole eraser”, there was absolutely no reason why
it couldn’t change the other collection too…

The Transfiguration still wasn’t going through.

Harry’s teeth clenched together, and he kicked it up another notch.

The concept Harry’s mind had of the eraser as a single object was
obvious nonsense.

It was a map that didn’t and couldn’t match the territory.

Human beings modelled the world using stratified levels of organization,
they had separate thoughts about how countries worked, how people
worked, how organs worked, how cells worked, how molecules worked, how
quarks worked.

When Harry’s brain needed to think about the eraser, it would think
about the rules that governed erasers, like “erasers can get rid of
pencil-marks”. Only if Harry’s brain needed to predict what would happen
on the lower chemical level, only then would Harry’s brain start
thinking—as though it were a separate fact—about rubber molecules.

But that was all in the mind.

Harry’s mind might have separate beliefs about rules that governed
erasers, but there was no separate law of physics that governed erasers.

Harry’s mind modelled reality using multiple levels of organization,
with different beliefs about each level. But that was all in the map,
the true territory wasn’t like that, reality itself had only a single
level of organization, the quarks, it was a unified low-level process
obeying mathematically simple rules.

Or at least that was what Harry had believed before he’d found out about
magic, but the eraser wasn’t magical.

And even if the eraser had been magical, the idea that there could
really exist a single solid eraser was impossible. Things like erasers
couldn’t be basic elements of reality, they were too big and complicated
to be atoms, they had to be made of parts. You couldn’t have things that
were fundamentally complicated. The implicit belief that Harry’s brain
had in the eraser as a single object wasn’t just wrong, it was a
map–territory confusion, the eraser only existed as a separate concept
in Harry’s multi-level model of the world, not as a separate element of
single-level reality.

…the Transfiguration still wasn’t happening.

Harry was breathing heavily, failed Transfiguration was almost as tiring
as successful Transfiguration, but damned if he’d give up now.

All right, screw this nineteenth-century garbage.

Reality wasn’t atoms, it wasn’t a set of tiny billiard balls bopping
around. That was just another lie. The notion of atoms as little dots
was just another convenient hallucination that people clung to because
they didn’t want to confront the inhumanly alien shape of the underlying
reality. No wonder, then, that his attempts to Transfigure based on that
hadn’t worked. If he wanted power, he had to abandon his humanity, and
force his thoughts to conform to the true maths of quantum mechanics.

There were no particles, there were just clouds of amplitude in a
multi-particle configuration space and what his brain fondly imagined to
be an eraser was nothing except a gigantic factor in a wave function
that happened to factorize, it didn’t have a separate existence any more
than there was a particular solid factor of 3 hidden inside the number
6, if his wand was capable of altering factors in an approximately
factorizable wave function then it should damn well be able to alter the
slightly smaller factor that Harry’s brain visualized as a patch of
material on the eraser—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione tore through the hallways, shoes pounding hard on the stone,
breath coming in pants, the shock of adrenaline still racing through her
blood.

Like a picture of a young woman turning into an old crone, like the cup
becoming two faces.

What had they been doing?

What had they been doing?

She came to the classroom and her fingers slipped on the doorknob at
first, too sweaty, she grabbed harder and the door opened—

—in a single flash of perception she saw Harry staring at a small pink
rectangle on the table in front of him—

—as a few paces away the tiny black thread, almost invisible from this
distance, supported all that weight—

“Harry get out of the classroom!”

Pure shock crossed Harry’s face, and he stood up so fast he almost fell
over, stopping only to grab the small pink rectangle from the table, and
he tore out of the door, she’d already stepped aside, her wand was
already in her hand coming up pointing at the thread—

“Finite Incantatem!”

And Hermione slammed the door shut again, just as the gigantic crash of
a hundred kilograms of falling metal came from inside.

She was panting, gasping for air, she’d run all the way here without
stopping, she was soaked in sweat and her legs and thighs burned like
living flames, she couldn’t have answered Harry’s questions for all the
Galleons in the world.

Hermione blinked, and realized that she had started to fall, and Harry
had caught her, and was lowering her gently to sit on the floor.

“…healthy…” she managed to whisper.

“What?” said Harry, looking paler than she’d ever seen him.

“…are you, feeling, healthy…”

Harry started looking even more frightened as the question sank in. “I,
I don’t think I have any symptoms—”

Hermione closed her eyes for a moment. “Good,” she whispered. “Catch,
breath.”

That took a while. Harry was still looking scared. That was good too,
maybe it would teach him a lesson.

Hermione reached into the pouch Harry had bought her, whispered “water”
through her parched throat, took out the bottle and drank in great huge
gulps.

And then it was still a while before she could talk again.

“We broke the rules, Harry,” she said in a hoarse voice. “We broke the
rules.”

“I…” Harry swallowed. “I still don’t see how, I’ve been thinking but—”

“I asked if the Transfiguration was safe and you answered me!”

There was a pause.

“That’s it?” Harry said.

She could have screamed.

“Harry, don’t you get it?” she said. “It’s made out of tiny fibres, what
if it unravelled, who knows what could go wrong, we didn’t ask Professor
McGonagall! Don’t you see what we were doing? We were experimenting with
Transfiguration. We were experimenting with Transfiguration!”

There was another pause.

“Right…” Harry said slowly. “That’s probably one of those things they
don’t even bother telling you not to do because it’s too obvious. Don’t
test brilliant new ideas for Transfiguration by yourselves in an unused
classroom without consulting any professors.”

“You could have got us killed, Harry!” Hermione knew it wasn’t fair,
she’d made the mistake too, but she still felt angry at him, he always
sounded so confident and that had dragged her unthinkingly along in his
wake. “We could have spoiled Professor McGonagall’s perfect record!”

“Yes,” said Harry, “let’s not tell her about this, shall we?”

“We have to stop,” Hermione said. “We have to stop this or we’re going
to get hurt. We’re too young, Harry, we can’t do this, not yet.”

A weak grin crossed Harry’s face. “Um, you’re sort of wrong about that.”

And he held out a small pink rectangle, a rubber eraser with a bright
metal patch on it.

Hermione stared at it, puzzled.

“Quantum mechanics wasn’t enough,” Harry said. “I had to go all the way
down to timeless physics before it took. Had to see the wand as
enforcing a relation between separate past and future realities, instead
of changing anything over time—but I did it, Hermione, I saw past the
illusion of objects, and I bet there’s not a single other wizard in the
world who could have. Even if some Muggle-born knew about timeless
formulations of quantum mechanics, it would just be a weird belief about
strange distant quantum stuff, they wouldn’t see that it was reality,
accept that the world they knew was just a hallucination. I Transfigured
part of the eraser without changing the whole thing.”

Hermione raised her wand again, pointed it at the eraser.

For a moment anger crossed Harry’s face, but he didn’t make any move to
stop her.

“Finite Incantatem,” said Hermione. “Check with Professor McGonagall
before you try it again.”

Harry nodded, though his face was still a bit tight.

“And we still have to stop,” said Hermione.

“Why?” said Harry. “Don’t you see what this means, Hermione? Wizards
don’t know everything! There’s too few of them, even fewer who know any
science, they haven’t exhausted the low-hanging fruit—”

“It’s not safe,” Hermione said. “If we can find out new things it’s even
less safe! We’re too young! We made one big mistake already, next time
we could just die!”

Then Hermione flinched.

Harry looked away from her, and started taking slow, deep breaths.

“Please don’t try to do it alone, Harry,” Hermione said, her voice
trembling. “Please.”

Please don’t make me have to decide whether to tell Professor Flitwick.

There was a long pause.

“So you want us to study,” Harry said. She could tell he was trying to
keep the anger out of his voice. “Just study.”

Hermione wasn’t sure if she should say anything, but… “Like you studied,
um, timeless physics, right?”

Harry looked back at her.

“That thing you did,” Hermione said, her voice tentative, “it wasn’t
because of our experiments, right? You could do it because you’d read
lots of books.”

Harry opened his mouth, and then he shut it again. There was a
frustrated look on his face.

“All right,” Harry said. “How about this. We study, and if I think of
anything that seems really worth trying, we’ll try it after I ask a
professor.”

“Okay,” Hermione said. She didn’t fall over with relief, but only
because she was already sitting down.

“Shall we get lunch?” Harry said cautiously.

Hermione nodded. Yes. Lunch sounded good. For real, this time.

She carefully began to push herself off the stone floor, wincing as her
body screamed at her—

Harry pointed his wand at her and said “Wingardium Leviosa.”

Hermione blinked as the huge weight on her legs diminished to something
bearable.

A smile flitted across Harry’s face. “You can lift something without
being able to Hover it completely,” he said. “Remember that experiment?”

Hermione smiled back helplessly, although she thought she ought to still
be angry.

And she started walking back toward the Great Hall, feeling remarkably
and wonderfully light on her feet, as Harry carefully kept his wand
trained on her.

He only managed to keep it up for five minutes, but it was the thought
that counted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

McGonagall looked at Dumbledore.

Dumbledore gazed back inquiringly at her. “Did you understand any of
that?” the Headmaster said, sounding bemused.

It had been the most complete and utter gibberish that Minerva could
ever remember hearing. She was feeling a bit embarrassed about having
summoned the Headmaster to hear it, but she’d been given explicit
instructions.

“I’m afraid not,” Professor McGonagall said primly.

“So,” Dumbledore said. The silver beard swung away from her, the old
wizard’s twinkling gaze looked elsewhere once more. “You suspect you
might be able to do something that other wizards can’t do, something we
think is impossible.”

The three of them stood within the Headmaster’s private Transfiguration
workroom, where the shining phœnix of Dumbledore’s Patronus had told her
to bring Harry, moments after her own Patronus had reached him. Light
shone down through the skylights and illuminated the great seven-pointed
alchemical diagram drawn in the centre of the circular room, showing it
to be a little dusty, which saddened Minerva. Transfiguration research
was one of Dumbledore’s great enjoyments, and she’d known how pressed
for time he’d been lately, but not that he was this pressed.

And now Harry Potter was going to waste even more of the Headmaster’s
time. But she certainly couldn’t blame Harry for that. He’d done the
proper thing in coming to her to say that he’d had an idea for doing
something in Transfiguration that was currently believed to be
impossible, and she herself had done exactly what she’d been told to:
she’d ordered Harry to be quiet and not discuss anything with her until
she had consulted the Headmaster and they’d finished moving to a secure
location.

If Harry had started out by saying what specifically he thought he could
do, she wouldn’t have bothered.

“Look, I know it’s hard to explain,” Harry said, sounding a little
embarrassed. “What it adds up to is that what you believe conflicts with
what scientists believe, in a case where I’d genuinely expect scientists
to know more than wizards.”

Minerva would have sighed out loud, if Dumbledore hadn’t seemed to be
taking the whole thing very seriously.

Harry’s idea stemmed from simple ignorance, nothing more. If you changed
half of a metal ball into glass, the whole ball had a different Form. To
change the part was to change the whole, and that meant removing the
whole Form and replacing it with a different one. What would it even
mean to Transfigure only half of a metal ball? That the metal ball as a
whole had the same Form as before, but half that ball now had a
different Form?

“Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, “what you want to do isn’t just
impossible, it’s illogical. If you change half of something, you did
change the whole.”

“Indeed,” said Dumbledore. “But Harry is the hero, so he may be able to
do things that are logically impossible.”

Minerva would have rolled her eyes, if she hadn’t gone numb a long time
ago.

“Supposing it was possible,” said Dumbledore, “can you think of any
reason why the results would differ in any way from ordinary
Transfiguration?”

Minerva frowned. The fact that the concept was literally unimaginable
was presenting her with some difficulty, but she tried to take it at
face value. A Transfiguration imposed on only half of a metal ball…

“Strange things happening at the interface?” said Minerva. “But that
should be no different than Transfiguring the object as a whole, into a
Form with two different parts…”

Dumbledore nodded. “That is my own thought as well. And Harry, if your
theory is correct, it implies that what you want to do is exactly like
any other Transfiguration, only applied to a part of the subject rather
than the whole? No changes at all?”

“Yes,” Harry said firmly. “That’s the whole point.”

Dumbledore looked at her again. “Minerva, can you think of any reason
whatsoever why that would be dangerous?”

“No,” said Minerva, after she had finished searching through her memory.

“Likewise myself,” said the Headmaster. “All right, then, since this
ought to be exactly analogous to ordinary Transfiguration in all
respects, and since we cannot think of any reason whatsoever why it
would be dangerous, I think that the second degree of caution will
suffice.”

Minerva was surprised, but she didn’t object. Dumbledore was by far her
senior in Transfiguration, and he had tried literally thousands of new
Transfigurations without ever choosing a degree of caution that was too
low. He had used Transfiguration in combat and he was still alive. If
the Headmaster thought the second degree was enough, it was enough.

That Harry was certainly going to fail was, of course, completely
irrelevant.

The two of them started setting up the wards and detection webs. The
most important web was the one that checked to make sure no Transfigured
material had entered the air. Harry would be enclosed in a separate
shell of force with its own air supply just to be certain, only his wand
allowed to leave the shield, and the interface tight. They were inside
Hogwarts so they couldn’t automatically Apparate out any material that
showed signs of spontaneous combustion, but they could launch it out a
skylight almost as fast, the windows all folded outward for exactly that
reason. Harry himself would go out a different skylight at the first
sign of trouble.

Harry watched them working, his face looking a little frightened.

“Don’t worry,” said Professor McGonagall in the middle of her running
description, “this almost certainly won’t be necessary, Mr Potter. If we
expected anything to go wrong you would not be allowed to try. It’s just
ordinary precautions for any Transfiguration no-one has ever tried
before.”

Harry swallowed and nodded.

And a few minutes later, Harry was strapped into the safety chair and
resting his wand against a metal ball—one that, based on his current
test scores, should have been too large for him to Transfigure in less
than thirty minutes.

And a few minutes after that, Minerva was leaning against the wall,
feeling faint.

There was a small patch of glass on the ball where Harry’s wand had
rested.

Harry didn’t say I told you so, but the smug look on his sweating face
said it for him.

Dumbledore was casting analytic Charms on the ball, looking more and
more intrigued by the moment. Thirty years had melted off his face.

“Fascinating,” said Dumbledore. “It’s exactly as he claimed. He simply
Transfigured a part of the subject without Transfiguring the whole. You
say it’s really just a conceptual limitation, Harry?”

“Yes,” Harry said, “but a deep one, just knowing it had to be a
conceptual limitation wasn’t enough. I had to suppress the part of my
mind that was making the error and think instead about the underlying
reality that scientists figured out.”

“Truly fascinating,” Dumbledore said. “I take it that for any other
wizard to do the same would require months of study if they could do it
at all? And may I ask you to partially Transfigure some other subjects?”

“Probably yes and of course,” Harry said.

Half an hour later, Minerva was feeling equally bewildered, but
considerably reassured about the safety issues.

It was the same, aside from being logically impossible.

“I believe that’s enough, Headmaster,” Minerva said finally. “I suspect
partial Transfiguration is more tiring than the ordinary sort.”

“Getting less so with practice,” said the exhausted and pale boy, voice
unsteady, “but yeah, you’ve got that right.”

The process of extracting Harry from the wards took another minute, and
then Minerva escorted him to a much more comfortable chair, and
Dumbledore produced an ice-cream soda.

“Congratulations, Mr Potter!” said Professor McGonagall, and meant it.
She would have bet almost anything against that working.

“Congratulations indeed,” said Dumbledore. “Even I did not make any
original discoveries in Transfiguration before the age of fourteen. Not
since the day of Dorotea Senjak has any genius flowered so early.”

“Thanks,” Harry said, sounding a little surprised.

“Nonetheless,” Dumbledore said thoughtfully, “I think it would be most
wise to keep this happy event a secret, at least for now. Harry, did you
discuss your idea with any other person before you spoke to Professor
McGonagall?”

There was silence.

“Um…” Harry said. “I don’t want to turn anyone over to the Inquisition,
but I did tell one other student—”

The word almost exploded from Professor McGonagall’s lips. “What? You
discussed a completely novel form of Transfiguration with a student
before consulting a recognized authority? Do you have any idea how
irresponsible that was?”

“I’m sorry,” said Harry. “I didn’t realize.”

The boy looked appropriately frightened, and Minerva felt something
inside her relax. At least Harry understood how foolish he’d been.

“You must swear Miss Granger to secrecy,” Dumbledore said gravely. “And
do not tell anyone else unless there is an extremely good reason for it,
and they too have sworn.”

“Ah… why?” Harry said.

Minerva was wondering the same thing. Once again the Headmaster was
thinking too far ahead for her to keep up.

“Because you can do something that no-one else will believe you can do,”
Dumbledore said. “Something completely unexpected. It may prove to be
your critical advantage, Harry, and we must preserve it. Please, trust
me in this.”

Professor McGonagall nodded, her firm face showing nothing of her inner
confusion. “Please do, Mr Potter,” she said.

“All right…” Harry said slowly.

“Once we have finished examining your materials,” Dumbledore added, “you
may practise partial Transfiguration, on glass to steel and steel to
glass only, with Miss Granger to act as your spotter. Naturally, if
either of you suspect any symptom of any form of Transfiguration
sickness, inform a professor at once.”

Just before Harry left the workroom, with his hand on the door handle,
the boy turned back and said, “As long as we’re here, has either of you
noticed anything different about Professor Snape?”

“Different?” said the Headmaster.

Minerva didn’t let her wry smile show on her face. Of course the boy was
apprehensive about the ‘evil Potions Master’, since he had no way of
knowing why Severus was to be trusted. It would have been odd to say the
least, explaining to Harry that Severus was still in love with his
mother.

“I mean, has his behaviour changed recently in any way?” said Harry.

“Not that I have seen…” the Headmaster said slowly. “Why do you ask?”

Harry shook his head. “I don’t want to prejudice your own observations
by saying. Just keep an eye out, maybe?”

That sent a quiver of unease through Minerva in a way that no outright
accusation of Severus could have.

Harry bowed to both of them respectfully, and took his leave.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Albus,” Minerva said after the boy had gone, “how did you know to take
Harry seriously? I would have thought his idea merely impossible!”

The old wizard’s face turned grave. “The same reason it must be kept
secret, Minerva. The same reason I told you to come to me, if Harry made
any such claim. Because it is a power that Voldemort knows not.”

The words took a few seconds to sink in.

And then the cold shiver went down her spine, as it always did when she
remembered.

It had started out as an ordinary job interview, Sybill Trelawney
applying for the position of Professor of Divination.

THE ONE WITH POWER TO VANQUISH THE DARK LORD APPROACHES,
BORN TO THOSE WHO HAVE THRICE DEFIED HIM,
BORN AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES,
AND THE DARK LORD WILL MARK HIM AS HIS EQUAL,
BUT HE WILL HAVE POWER THE DARK LORD KNOWS NOT,
AND EITHER MUST DESTROY ALL BUT A REMNANT OF THE OTHER,
FOR THOSE TWO DIFFERENT SPIRITS CANNOT EXIST IN THE SAME WORLD.

Those dreadful words, spoken in that terrible booming voice, didn’t seem
to fit something like partial Transfiguration.

“Perhaps not, then,” Dumbledore said after Minerva tried to explain. “I
confess I had been hoping for something that would help in finding
Voldemort’s horcrux, wherever he may have hidden it. But…” The old
wizard shrugged. “Prophecies are tricky things, Minerva, and it is best
to take no chances. The smallest thing may prove decisive if it remains
unexpected.”

“And what do you suppose he meant about Severus?” said Minerva.

“There I have no idea,” sighed Dumbledore. “Unless Harry is making a
move against Severus, and thought that an open question might be taken
seriously where a direct allegation would be dismissed. And if that was
indeed what happened, Harry correctly reasoned that I would not trust
that it was so. Let us simply keep watch, without prejudice, as he
asks.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, 1

“Um, Hermione?” Harry said in a very small voice. “I think I owe you a
really, really, really big apology.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, 2

Alissa Cornfoot’s eyes were slightly glazed as she gazed upon the
Potions Master giving her class a stern lecture, holding up a tiny
bronze bean and saying something about screaming puddles of human flesh.
Ever since the start of this year she’d been having trouble listening in
Potions. She kept staring at their awful, mean, greasy professor and
fantasizing about special detentions. There was probably something
really wrong with her but she just couldn’t seem to stop doing it—

“Ow!” Alissa said then.

Snape had just flicked the bronze bean unerringly at Alissa’s forehead.

“Miss Cornfoot,” said the Potions Master, his voice cutting, “this is a
delicate potion and if you cannot pay attention you will hurt your
classmates, not just yourself. See me after class.”

The last four words didn’t help her any, but she tried harder, and
managed to get through the day without melting anyone.

After class, Alissa approached the desk. Part of her wanted to stand
there meekly with her face abashed and her hands clasped penitently
behind her back, just in case, but some quiet instinct told her this
might be a bad idea. So instead she just stood there with her face
neutral, in a posture that was very proper for a young lady, and said,
“Professor?”

“Miss Cornfoot,” Snape said without looking up from the sheets he was
grading, “I do not return your affections, I begin to find your stares
disturbing, and you will restrain your eyes henceforth. Is that quite
clear?”

“Yes,” said Alissa in a strangled squeak, and Snape dismissed her, and
she fled the classroom with her cheeks flaming like molten lava.

29. Egocentric Bias

E. Y.: Unfortunately, no one can be told who J. K. Rowling is. You have
to see her for yourself.

Science disclaimers: Luosha points out that the theory of empathy in Ch.
27 (you use your own brain to simulate others) isn’t quite a known
scientific fact. The evidence so far points in that direction, but we
haven’t analyzed the brain circuitry and proven it. Similarly, timeless
formulations of quantum mechanics (alluded to in Ch. 28) are so elegant
that I’d be shocked to find the final theory had time in it, but they’re
not established yet either.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THERE’D been a sinking feeling in Hermione’s stomach lately, every time
she heard the other students talking about her and Harry. She’d been in
a shower stall this morning when she’d overheard a conversation between
Morag and Padma that had been the last straw piled on top of quite a lot
of other straws.

She was starting to think that getting involved in a rivalry with Harry
Potter had been a terrible mistake.

If she’d just stayed away from Harry Potter, she could have been
Hermione Granger, the brightest academic star of Hogwarts, who was
earning more points for Ravenclaw than anyone. She wouldn’t have been as
famous as the Boy-Who-Lived, but she would have been famous for herself.

Instead the Boy-Who-Lived had an academic rival, and her name happened
to be Hermione Granger.

And worse, she had gone on a date with him.

The idea of getting into a Romance with Harry had seemed like an
appealing idea at first. She’d read books like that, and if there was
anyone in Hogwarts who was a candidate for the heroine’s love interest
it was obviously Harry Potter. Bright, funny, famous, sometimes scary…

So she’d forced Harry into going on a date with her.

And now she was his love interest.

Or worse, one of the options on his dinner menu.

She’d been in a shower stall that morning and just about to turn on the
water, when she’d heard giggles coming from outside. And she’d heard
Morag talking about how that Muggle-born girl probably wouldn’t fight
hard enough to win against Ginevra Weasley, and Padma speculating that
Harry Potter might decide he wanted both.

It was like they didn’t understand that girls had options on their
dinner menu and boys fought over them.

But that wasn’t even the part that hurt, really. It was that when she
scored 98 on one of Professor McGonagall’s tests, the news wasn’t that
Hermione Granger had scored the highest in the class, the news was that
Harry Potter’s rival had scored seven more points than him.

If you got too close to the Boy-Who-Lived, you became part of his story.

You didn’t get your own.

And the thought had come to Hermione that she should just walk away, but
that would’ve been too sad.

But she did want to get back what she’d accidentally given away by
letting herself become known as Harry’s rival. She wanted to be a
separate person again instead of Harry Potter’s third leg, was that too
much to ask?

It was a hard trap to climb out of once you fell in. No matter how high
you scored in class, even if you did something that deserved a special
dinner time announcement, it just meant you were rivalling Harry Potter
again.

But she thought she’d come up with a way.

Something to do that wouldn’t be seen as pushing up on the opposite end
of Harry Potter’s see-saw.

It would be hard.

It would go against her nature.

She would have to fight someone very evil.

And she would need to ask someone even more evil for help.

Hermione raised her hand to knock upon that terrible door.

She hesitated.

Hermione realized she was being silly, and raised her hand a bit higher.

She tried to knock again.

Her hand quite failed to touch the door.

And then the door swung open anyway.

“Dear me,” said the spider, sitting in its web. “Was it really that hard
to lose a single Quirrell point, Miss Granger?”

Hermione stood there with her hand raised, her cheeks growing pink. It
had been.

“Well, Miss Granger, I shall be merciful,” said the evil Professor
Quirrell. “Consider it already lost. There, I have taken a hard choice
from you. Are you not grateful?”

“Professor Quirrell,” Hermione managed to say in a voice that squeaked a
little. “I have a lot of Quirrell points, don’t I?”

“You do indeed,” said Professor Quirrell. “Though one less than you had
before. Terrible, isn’t it? Just think, if I don’t like your reason for
coming here, you could lose another fifty. Maybe I’d take them away one…
by one… by one…”

Hermione’s cheeks were going even redder. “You’re really evil, did
anyone ever tell you that?”

“Miss Granger,” Professor Quirrell said gravely, “it can be dangerous to
give people compliments like that when they have not been truly earned.
The recipient might feel bashful and undeserving and want to do
something worthy of your praise. Now what was it you wanted to talk to
me about, Miss Granger?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was after lunch on Thursday afternoon, and Hermione and Harry were
ensconced in a little library nook, with a Quietus field up so they
could talk. Harry was lying stomach-down on the ground with his elbows
resting on the floor and his head in his hands and his feet kicking up
casually behind him. Hermione was occupying a stuffed chair much too
large for her, as if she was the Hermione centre of a bonbon.

Harry had suggested that they could, as a first pass, read just the
titles of all the books in the library, and then Hermione could read all
the tables of contents.

Hermione had thought this was a brilliant idea. She’d never done that
with a library before.

Unfortunately there was a slight flaw in this plan.

Namely, they were both Ravenclaws.

Hermione was reading a book called Magical Mnemonics.

Harry was reading a book called The Skeptical Wizard.

Each had thought it was just one special exception they would make only
this one time, and neither had yet realized it was impossible for either
of them to ever finish reading all the book titles no matter how hard
they tried.

The quiet of their little nook was broken by two words.

“Oh, no,” Harry suddenly said out loud, sounding like the words had been
torn out of him.

There was a bit more quiet.

“He didn’t,” Harry said, in the same voice.

Then she heard Harry start giggling helplessly.

Hermione looked up from her book.

“All right,” she said, “what is it?”

“I just found out why you never ask the Weasleys about the family rat,”
Harry said. “It’s really awful and I shouldn’t be laughing and I’m a
terrible person.”

“Yes,” Hermione said primly, “you are. Tell me too.”

“Okay, first the background. There’s a whole chapter in this book about
Sirius Black conspiracy theories. You remember who that is, right?”

“Of course,” said Hermione. Sirius Black was a traitor, a friend of
James Potter who had let Voldemort into the protected home of the
Potters.

“So it turns out there were a number of, shall we say, irregularities,
associated with Black going to Azkaban. He didn’t get a trial, and the
Junior Minister in charge when the Aurors arrested Black was none other
than Cornelius Fudge, who became our current Minister of Magic.”

That sounded a little suspicious to Hermione too, and she said as much.

Harry made a shrugging motion with his shoulders, as he lay on the floor
looking at his book. “Suspicious things happen all the time, and if
you’re a conspiracy theorist you can always find something.”

“But no trial?” said Hermione.

“It was right after the Dark Lord’s defeat,” Harry said, his voice
serious as he said it. “Things were incredibly chaotic, and when the
Aurors tracked down Black he was standing there laughing in a street
ankle-deep in blood, with twenty eyewitnesses to recount how he’d killed
a friend of my father’s named Peter Pettigrew plus twelve bystanders.
I’m not saying I approve of Black not getting a trial. But these are
wizards we’re talking about here, so it’s not really any more suspicious
than, I don’t know, the sort of thing people point to when they want to
argue over who shot John F. Kennedy. So anyway, Sirius Black is the
wizarding Lee Harvey Oswald. There’s all sorts of conspiracy theories
about who really betrayed my parents instead of him, and one of the
favourites is Peter Pettigrew, and this is where it starts getting
complicated.”

Hermione listened, fascinated. “But how do you go from there to the
Weasleys’ pet rat—”

“Hold on,” said Harry, “I’m getting there. Now, after Pettigrew’s death
it came out that he’d been a spy for the Light—not a double agent, just
someone who sneaked around and found things out. He’d been good at that
since he was a teenager, even in Hogwarts he had a reputation for
finding out all sorts of secrets. So the conspiracy theory is that
Pettigrew became an unregistered Animagus while he was still in
Hogwarts, an Animagus of something small that could scurry around and
listen to conversations. The main problem being that successful Animagi
are rare and doing it as a teenager would be really unlikely, so of
course the conspiracy theory says that my father and Black were
unregistered Animagi too. And in that conspiracy theory, Pettigrew
himself killed the twelve bystanders, turned into his small Animagus
form, and ran. So Michael Shermer says there are four additional
problems with this. One, Black was the only one besides my parents who
knew how to get through the wards around their house.” (Harry’s voice
was a little hard as he said that.) “Two, Black was a more likely
suspect to start with than Pettigrew: there’s a rumour Black
deliberately tried to get a student killed during his time at Hogwarts,
and he was from this really nasty pureblood family, Bellatrix Black was
literally his cousin. Three, Black was twenty times the fighting wizard
that Pettigrew was, even if he wasn’t as smart. The duel between them
would have been like Professor Quirrell versus Professor Sprout.
Pettigrew probably didn’t even get a chance to draw his wand, let alone
fake all the evidence the conspiracy theory requires. And four, Black
was standing in the street laughing.”

“But the rat—” said Hermione.

“Right,” Harry said. “Well, to make a long story short, Bill Weasley
decided that his little brother Percy’s pet rat was Pettigrew’s Animagus
form—”

Hermione’s jaw dropped.

“Yes,” Harry said, “you wouldn’t exactly expect Evil Pettigrew to be
living a sad and furtive life as the pet rat of an enemy wizarding
family, he’d either be with the Malfoys or, more likely, off in the
Caribbean after a bit of plastic surgery. Anyway, Bill knocks out his
little brother Percy, stuns and grabs the rat, sends out all these
emergency owl messages—”

“Oh, no!” Hermione said, the words torn out of her.

“—and somehow manages to gather Dumbledore, the Minister of Magic, and
the Head Auror—”

“He didn’t!” said Hermione.

“And of course when they get there they think he’s crazy, but they use
Veritas Oculum on the rat anyway, just to be sure, and what do they
discover?”

She would’ve died. “A rat.”

“You win a cookie! So they dragged poor Bill Weasley off to St. Mungo’s
and it turned out to be a pretty standard schizophrenic break, it just
happens to some people, especially young men around what we’d consider
university age. Guy was convinced he was ninety-seven years old and had
died and gone back in time to his younger self via train station. And he
responded perfectly well to antipsychotics and is back to normal and
everything’s fine now, except people don’t talk as much any more about
Sirius Black conspiracy theories, and you don’t ever ask the Weasleys
about the family rat.”

Hermione was giggling helplessly. It was really awful and she shouldn’t
be laughing and she was a terrible person.

“The thing I don’t understand,” Harry said, after their giggles had died
down, “is why Black would hunt down Pettigrew instead of running as fast
as he could. He had to know the Aurors would be after him. I wonder if
they got the reason out of Black before they took him to Azkaban? See,
this is why people who are absolutely positively guilty still go through
the legal system and get trials.”

Hermione had to agree with that.

Soon Harry was done with his book while Hermione was only halfway
through hers—hers was a much more difficult book than Harry’s, but she
still felt embarrassed about that. And then she had to put Magical
Mnemonics back on the shelf and drag herself away, because it was time
for her to face the most dreaded class in Hogwarts, broomstick riding.

Harry tagged along as she walked there, even though his own class wasn’t
until an hour and a half later, like a fighter jet escorting a sad
little propeller plane on its way to its own funeral.

The boy wished her goodbye in a quiet, sympathetic voice, and she walked
onto the grassy fields of Doom.

And there was much shrieking and almost falling and horrible brushes
with death and the ground in completely the wrong place and the sun
getting in her eyes and Morag buzzing her and Mandy thinking she was
being subtle about always being near enough to catch her if she fell and
she knew the other students were laughing at both of them but she never
said anything to Mandy because she didn’t actually want to die.

After ten million years the class ended, and she was back on the ground
where she belonged until next Thursday. Sometimes she had nightmares
about it always being Thursday.

Why everyone had to learn this, when they were just going to Apparate or
Floo or portkey everywhere once they grew up, was a complete and utter
mystery to Hermione. Nobody actually needed to ride broomsticks as an
adult, it was like being forced to play dodgeball in P.E.

At least Harry had the decency to be ashamed of being good at it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was a couple of hours later, and she was in a Hufflepuff study hall
with Hannah, Susan, Leanne, and Megan. Professor Flitwick, surprisingly
diffident for a teacher, had asked if she might possibly maybe help
those four with their Charms homework for a while, even though they
weren’t Ravenclaws, and Hermione had felt so proud she’d almost burst.

Hermione took a piece of parchment, spilled a little bit of ink on it,
tore it into four pieces, crumpled them, and tossed the pieces on the
table.

She could have got it just from crumpling it, but doing all that made it
more like garbage, and that helped when someone was first practising the
Disposal Charm.

Hermione sharpened her ears and eyes, and said, “Okay, try it.”

“Everto.”

“Everto.”

“Everto.”

“Everto.”

Hermione didn’t think she’d quite caught all the problems. “Can you all
try it again?”

An hour later Hermione had concluded that (1), Leanne and Megan were
sort of sloppy, but if you asked them to keep practising something, they
would, (2) Hannah and Susan were focused and driven to the point where
you had to keep telling them to slow down and relax and think about
things instead of trying so hard—it was odd to think that those two
would soon be hers—and (3) she liked helping Hufflepuffs, the whole
study hall had a very cheerful atmosphere.

When she left for dinner, she found the Boy-Who-Lived reading a book
while he waited to escort her. It made her feel flattered, and also a
little worried because Harry didn’t seem to really talk to anyone
besides her.

“Did you know there’s a girl in Hufflepuff who’s a Metamorphmagus?” said
Hermione as they headed toward the Great Hall. “She makes her hair
really red, like stop-sign red not Weasley red, and when she spilled hot
tea on herself she turned into a black-haired boy until she got it under
control again.”

“Really? Cool,” said Harry, sounding a bit distracted. “Um, Hermione,
just to check, you know tomorrow is the last day to sign up for
Professor Quirrell’s armies, right?”

“Yes,” Hermione said. “The armies of the evil Professor Quirrell.” Her
voice was a little angry, though Harry didn’t know why, of course.

“Hermione,” Harry said, his voice exasperated, “he’s not evil. He’s a
little bit Dark and a whole lot Slytherin. It’s not the same as being
evil.”

Harry Potter had too many words for things, that was his problem. He
would have been better off if he’d just divided the universe into Good
and Bad. “Professor Quirrell called me up in front of the whole class
and told me to shoot someone!”

“He was right,” Harry said, his face sober. “I’m sorry, Hermione, but he
was. You should have shot me, I wouldn’t have minded. You can’t learn
Battle Magic if you can’t practise against real opponents using real
spells. And now you’re doing okay in sparring, aren’t you?”

Hermione was only twelve, and so she knew, but she couldn’t put it into
words, she couldn’t find the thing to say that would convince Harry.

Professor Quirrell had taken a young girl and called up that girl in
front of everyone, and ordered her to open fire without provocation on a
classmate.

It didn’t matter if Professor Quirrell was right about her needing to
learn it.

Professor McGonagall wouldn’t ever have done that.

Professor Flitwick wouldn’t ever have done that.

Maybe not even Professor Snape would have done that.

Professor Quirrell was evil.

But she couldn’t find the words, and she knew that Harry would never
believe her.

“Hermione, I’ve talked to older students,” Harry said. “Professor
Quirrell could be the only competent Defence Professor we get in all
seven years at Hogwarts. Anything else we can learn later. If we want to
study Defence, we have to do it this year. The students who sign up for
the extracurricular stuff are going to be learning huge amounts, way
beyond what the Ministry thinks first-years are supposed to study—did
you know we’re going to be learning the Patronus Charm? In January?”

“The Patronus Charm?” Hermione said, her voice going up in surprise.

Her books said that was one of the brightest magics known, a weapon
against the Darkest creatures, cast with pure positive emotions. It
wasn’t something she’d expect the evil Professor Quirrell to teach—or
arrange to be taught, since Hermione couldn’t imagine he could do the
spell himself.

“Yes,” Harry said. “Students don’t usually learn the Patronus Charm
until their fifth year or even later! But Professor Quirrell says the
Ministry schedules were made up by talking Flobberworms, and the ability
to cast the Patronus Charm depends on emotions more than magical
strength. Professor Quirrell says that he thinks most students do way
less than they can, and this year he’s going to prove it.”

There was the usual tone of awed worship that Harry’s voice had when he
talked about Professor Quirrell, and Hermione gritted her teeth and kept
walking.

“I already signed up, actually,” Hermione said, her voice a little
quiet. “I did it this morning. For everything, just like you said.”

In for a penny, in for a pound was the usual expression.

Besides, she didn’t want to lose, and if she wanted to win she had to
learn.

“So you will be in the armies, then?” Harry’s voice was suddenly
enthusiastic. “That’s awesome, Hermione! I’ve already got my list of
soldiers, but I’m sure Professor Quirrell will let me add one more, or
trade—”

“I’m not joining your army.” Hermione’s voice was sharp. She knew it was
a reasonable assumption but it still annoyed her.

Harry blinked. “Not Draco Malfoy’s, surely. So you want to be in the
third army? Even though we don’t know who the general is yet?” Harry
sounded surprised and a little wounded, and she couldn’t blame him,
though of course she did blame him, since in fact it was all his fault.
“But why not mine?”

“Think about it,” Hermione snapped, “and maybe you’ll work it out!”

And she sped up her stride and left Harry gaping behind her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Professor Quirrell,” Draco said in his most formal voice, “I must
protest your appointment of Hermione Granger as the third general.”

“Oh?” said Professor Quirrell, leaning back in his chair in a casual and
relaxed manner. “Protest away, Mr Malfoy.”

“Granger is unfit for the position,” said Draco.

Professor Quirrell tapped a finger on his cheek thoughtfully. “Why yes,
yes she is. Do you have any further protests?”

“Professor Quirrell,” said Harry Potter beside him, “with all due
respect to Miss Granger’s many outstanding academic talents and the
Quirrell points she has justly earned in your classes, her personality
is not suited to military command.”

Draco had been relieved when Harry had agreed to accompany him to
Professor Quirrell’s office. It wasn’t just that Harry was a gigantic
blatant teacher’s pet where Professor Quirrell was concerned. Draco had
also started to worry that Harry actually was friends with Granger, it
had been a while now and he still hadn’t made his move… but this was
more like it.

“I agree with Mr Potter,” said Draco. “Appointing her as a general turns
it into a farce.”

“Harshly put,” said Harry, “but I cannot bring myself to disagree with
Mr Malfoy. To be blunt, Professor Quirrell, Hermione Granger has around
as much intent to kill as a bowl of wet grapes.”

“That,” said Professor Quirrell mildly, “is not a thing I would fail to
notice myself. You are telling me nothing I do not already know.”

It was Draco’s turn to say something, but the conversation had suddenly
hiccuped. That answer had not been in the possibilities he and Harry had
brainstormed before coming here. What did you say after the teacher said
that he knew everything you knew and he was still going to commit an
obvious mistake?

The silence stretched.

“Is this some sort of plot?” Harry said slowly.

“Must everything I do be some sort of plot?” said Professor Quirrell.
“Can’t I ever create chaos just for the sake of chaos?”

Draco almost choked.

“Not in your Battle Magic class,” Harry said with calm certainty. “Other
places, maybe, but not there.”

Professor Quirrell slowly raised his eyebrows.

Harry gazed steadily back at him.

Draco shivered.

“Well then,” Professor Quirrell said. “Neither of you seem to have
considered a very simple question. Who could I appoint instead of
Miss Granger?”

“Blaise Zabini,” Draco said without hesitation.

“Any other suggestions?” said Professor Quirrell, sounding quite amused.

Anthony Goldstein and Ernie Macmillan, came the thought, before Draco’s
common sense kicked in and ruled out mudbloods and Hufflepuffs no matter
how aggressively they duelled. So instead Draco just said, “What’s wrong
with Zabini?”

“I see… ” Harry said slowly.

“I don’t,” said Draco. “Why not Zabini?”

Professor Quirrell looked at Draco. “Because, Mr Malfoy, no matter how
hard he tries, he’ll never be able to keep up with you or Mr Potter.”

The shock of it staggered Draco. “You can’t believe Granger is going
to—”

“He’s gambling on her,” Harry said quietly. “It’s not guaranteed. The
odds aren’t even good. She’ll probably never give us a good fight, and
even if she does, it may take her months to learn. But she’s the only
one in our year with any chance at all of growing to beat us.”

Draco’s hands twitched but didn’t clench into fists. Showing up as your
supporter and then backing out was a classic undermining tactic, so
Harry Potter was in it with Granger and that implied—

“But Professor,” Harry went on smoothly, “I’m worried Hermione will be
miserable as the general of an army. I’m speaking as her friend now,
Professor Quirrell. The competition might be good for Draco and me, but
what you’re asking her to do isn’t good for her!”

Never mind.

“Your friendship for Hermione Granger does you credit,” Professor
Quirrell said dryly. “Especially as you are able to be friends with
Draco Malfoy at the same time. Quite a feat, that.”

Harry suddenly looked a little nervous, meaning he probably felt a lot
more nervous, and Draco silently swore to himself. Of course Harry
wasn’t going to fool Professor Quirrell.

“And I doubt Miss Granger would appreciate your friendly concern,” said
Professor Quirrell. “She asked me for the position, Mr Potter, I did not
ask her.”

Harry was quiet at this for a moment. Then he flashed Draco a quick look
that mixed apology and warning, saying at the same time, Sorry, I did my
best and We’d better not press it any further.

“As for her being miserable,” Professor Quirrell went on, a slight smile
now playing about his lips, “I suspect that she will have a much easier
time with the rigours of her position than either of you suspect, and
that she will put up a good fight much sooner than you think.”

Harry and Draco both gasped in horror.

“You’re not going to advise her, are you?” said Draco, utterly aghast.

“I never signed up to fight you!” said Harry.

The smile playing around Professor Quirrell’s lips grew wider. “As a
matter of fact, I did offer to share a few suggestions regarding
Miss Granger’s first battles.”

“Professor Quirrell!” said Harry.

“Oh, don’t worry,” Professor Quirrell said. “She turned me down. Just as
I expected.”

Draco’s eyes narrowed.

“Dear me, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, “didn’t anyone ever tell
you it’s rude to stare?”

“You’re not going to secretly help her some other way, are you?” said
Harry.

“Would I do that?” said Professor Quirrell.

“Yes,” said Draco and Harry at the same time.

“I am wounded by your lack of trust. Well then, I promise not to help
General Granger in any way that the two of you don’t know about. And now
I suggest that both of you be about your military affairs. November
approaches, and swiftly.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco saw the implications before the door had closed all the way behind
them on their way out of Professor Quirrell’s office.

Harry had once spoken dismissively of “people stuff”.

And now that was Draco’s only hope.

Let him not realize, let him not realize…

“We should just attack the Granger girl first and get her out of our
way,” said Draco. “After we crush her, we can have our own contest
without any distractions.”

“Now that doesn’t really seem fair to her, does it?” said Harry in a
mild voice.

“What do you care?” said Draco. “She’s your rival, right?” Then, with
just the right note of suspicion in his voice, “Don’t tell me you’ve
started really liking her, after being her rival all this time…”

“Founders forbid,” said Harry. “What can I say, Draco? I merely have a
natural sense of justice. Granger does too, you know. She has a very
firm grasp on good and evil, and she’s probably going to attack evil
first. Having a name like ‘Malfoy’ is just asking for it, you know.”

DAMN IT!

“Harry,” said Draco, sounding wounded and maybe a little superior,
“don’t you want to fight fairly against me?”

“You mean rather than attacking you after you’ve already lost some of
your forces beating Granger?” said Harry. “Oh, I don’t know. Maybe after
I get bored with just winning I’ll try that ‘fair’ thing.”

“Maybe she’ll attack you,” Draco said. “You’re her rival.”

“But I’m her friendly rival,” Harry said with an evil grin. “I bought
her a nice birthday present and everything. You wouldn’t go around
sabotaging your friendly rival like that.”

“What about sabotaging your friend’s chance at a fair fight?” said Draco
angrily. “I thought we were friends!”

“Let me rephrase that,” said Harry. “Granger wouldn’t sabotage a
friendly rival. But that’s because she has the killing intention of a
bowl of wet grapes. You would. You totally would. And guess what, so
would I.”

DAMN IT!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If it had been a play, there would have been dramatic music.

The hero, impeccably turned out in green-trimmed robes and perfectly
combed white-blonde hair, faced the villain.

The villain, leaning back in a simple wooden chair with her buckteeth
clearly visible and stray chestnut curls drifting over her cheeks, faced
the hero.

It was Wednesday, October 30th, and the first battle was coming up on
Sunday.

Draco was standing in General Granger’s office, a room the size of a
small classroom. (Why each general’s office was so large, Draco wasn’t
quite sure. A chair and a desk would have worked for him. He wasn’t even
clear on why the generals needed offices at all, his soldiers knew where
to find him. Unless Professor Quirrell had deliberately arranged the
huge offices for them as a sign of status, in which case Draco was all
for it.)

Granger sat on the room’s single chair like a throne, all the way on the
other end of the office from where the door opened. There was a long
oblong table stretched across the middle of the room between them, and
four small circular tables scattered around the corners, but only that
one single chair, all the way at the opposite end. The room had windows
along one wall, and one beam of sunlight touched the top of Granger’s
hair like a glowing crown.

It would have been nice if Draco could have walked slowly forward. But
there was a table in the way, and Draco had to go around it diagonally,
and there was no good way to do that in a dramatic and dignified
fashion. Had that been deliberate? If it had been his father, it surely
would have been; but this was Granger, so surely not.

There was nowhere for him to sit, and Granger hadn’t stood up, either.

Draco kept the outrage entirely off his face.

“Well, Mr Draco Malfoy,” Granger said once he stood before her, “you
requested an audience with me and I have been so gracious as to grant
it. What was your plea?”

Come with me to visit Malfoy Manor, my father and I would like to show
you some interesting spells.

“Your rival, Potter, came to me with an offer,” said Draco, putting a
serious look on his face. “He doesn’t mind losing to me, but would be
humiliated if you won. So he wants to join with me and wipe you out
immediately, not just in our first battle, all of them. If I won’t do
that, Potter wants me to hold back or harass you, while he launches an
all-out attack on you as his first move.”

“I see,” Granger said, looking surprised. “And you’re offering to help
me against him?”

“Of course,” said Draco smoothly. “I didn’t think what he wanted to do
to you was fair.”

“Why, that’s very nice of you, Mr Malfoy,” said Granger. “I’m sorry for
how I spoke to you earlier. We should be friends. Can I call you
Drakey?”

Alarm bells started to sound in Draco’s head, but there was a chance she
meant it…

“Of course,” said Draco, “if I can call you Hermy.”

Draco was pretty sure he saw her expression flicker.

“Anyway,” Draco said, “I was thinking it would serve Potter right if we
both attacked him and wiped him out.”

“But that wouldn’t be fair to Mr Potter, would it?” said Granger.

“I think it’d be very fair,” Draco said. “He was planning to do it to
you first.”

Granger was giving him a stern look that could possibly have intimidated
him if he’d been a Hufflepuff instead of a Malfoy. “You think I’m pretty
stupid, don’t you, Mr Malfoy?”

Draco smiled charmingly. “No, Miss Granger, but I thought I’d at least
check. So, what do you want?”

“Are you offering to bribe me?” said Granger.

“Sure,” said Draco. “Can I just slip you a Galleon and have you beat on
Potter instead of me for the rest of the year?”

“Nope,” said Granger, “but you can offer me ten Galleons and have me
attack both of you equally, instead of just you.”

“Ten Galleons is a lot of money,” Draco said cautiously.

“I didn’t know the Malfoys were poor,” said Granger.

Draco stared at Granger.

He was starting to get a strange feeling about this.

That particular reply didn’t seem like it should have come from this
particular girl.

“Well,” said Draco, “you don’t get to be rich by wasting money, you
know.”

“I don’t know if you know what a dentist is, Mr Malfoy, but my parents
are dentists and anything less than ten Galleons isn’t worth my time at
all.”

“Three Galleons,” Draco said, more as a probe than anything else.

“Nope,” said Granger. “If you want an equal fight at all, I don’t
believe that a Malfoy wants an equal fight less than he wants ten
Galleons.”

Draco was starting to get a very strange feeling about this.

“No,” said Draco.

“No?” said Granger. “This is a limited time offer, Mr Malfoy. Are you
sure you want to risk a whole year of being miserably crushed by the
Boy-Who-Lived? That would be pretty embarrassing for the House of
Malfoy, wouldn’t it?”

It was a very persuasive argument, one that was hard to refuse, but you
didn’t get to be rich by spending money when your heart told you it was
a setup.

“No,” said Draco.

“See you on Sunday,” said Granger.

Draco turned and walked out of the office without another word.

That had been not right…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hermione,” Harry said patiently, “we’re supposed to be plotting against
each other. You could even betray me and it wouldn’t mean anything
outside the battlefield.”

Hermione shook her head. “It wouldn’t be nice, Harry.”

Harry sighed. “I don’t think you’re getting into the spirit of this at
all.”

It wouldn’t be nice. She’d actually said that. Hermione didn’t know
whether to be insulted at what Harry thought of her, or worried about
whether she really did sound like that much of a goody-two-shoes
usually.

It was probably time to change the subject.

“Anyway, are you doing anything special for tomorrow?” said Hermione.
“It’s—”

Her voice cut off abruptly as she realized.

“Yes, Hermione,” Harry said a little tightly, “what day is it?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interlude

There was a time when October 31st had been called Halloween in magical
Britain.

Now it was Harry Potter Day.

Harry had turned down all the offers, even the one from Minister Fudge
which might have been good for future political favours and which he
really should have gritted his teeth and taken. But to Harry, October
31st would always be The Dark Lord Killed My Parents Day. There should
have been a quiet, dignified memorial service somewhere, and if there
was one, he hadn’t been invited.

Hogwarts got the day off to celebrate. Even the Slytherins didn’t dare
wear black outside their own dorm. There were special events and special
foods and the teachers looked the other way if anyone ran through the
hallways. It was the tenth anniversary, after all.

Harry spent the day in his trunk so as not to spoil it for anyone else,
eating snack bars in place of meals, reading some of his sadder
science-fiction books (no fantasy), and writing a letter to Mum and Dad
that was much longer than the ones he usually sent.

30. Working in Groups, Part I

E. Y.: J. K. Rowling if a man tries to bother you, you can think blue,
count two, and look for a red shoe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE day was Sunday, November 3rd, and soon the three great powers of
their school year, Harry Potter, Draco Malfoy, and Hermione Granger,
would begin their struggle for supreme dominance.

(Harry was slightly annoyed by the way the Boy-Who-Lived had been
demoted from supreme dominance to one of three equal rivals just by
entering the contest, but he expected to get it back soon.)

The battleground was a section of non-Forbidden forest, dense with
trees, because Professor Quirrell thought that being able to see all the
enemy forces was too boring even for your very first battle.

All the students who were not actually in a first-year army were camped
out nearby and watching on screens that Professor Quirrell had set up.
Except for three Gryffindors in their fourth year, who were currently
sick and confined to healer’s beds by Madam Pomfrey. Aside from that,
everyone was there.

The students were dressed, not in their ordinary school robes, but in
Muggle camouflage uniforms that Professor Quirrell had obtained
somewhere and supplied in sufficient quantity and variety to fit
everyone. It wasn’t that students would have worried about stains and
rips, that was what Charms were for. But as Professor Quirrell had
explained to the surprised wizardborn, nice dignified clothing was not
efficient for hiding in forests or dodging around trees.

And on each uniform’s breast, a patch bearing the name and insignia of
your army. A small patch. If you wanted your soldiers to wear, say,
coloured ribbons so that they could identify each other at a distance,
and risk the enemy getting their hands on the ribbons, that was all up
to you.

Harry had tried to get the name Dragon Army.

Draco had pitched a fit and said that would confuse everyone completely.

Professor Quirrell had ruled that Draco could lay prior claim to the
name, if he wished.

So now Harry was fighting Dragon Army.

This probably wasn’t a good sign.

For their insignia, instead of the too-obvious dragon’s head breathing
fire, Draco had elected to simply go with the fire. Elegant,
understated, deadly: This is what’s left after we’ve passed. Very
Malfoy.

Harry, after considering alternate choices such as the 501st Provisional
Battalion and Harry’s Minions o’ Doom, had decided that his army would
be known by the simple and dignified appellation of the Chaos Legion.

Their insignia was a hand poised with fingers ready to snap.

It was universally agreed that this wasn’t a good sign.

Harry had earnestly advised Hermione that the young boys serving under
her were probably nervous about her being a girl with a reputation for
being nice, and that she should pick something scary that would reassure
them of her toughness and make them proud to be part of her army, like
the Blood Commandos or something.

Hermione had named her army the Sunshine Regiment.

Their insignia was a smiley face.

And in ten minutes, they would be at war.

Harry stood in the bright forest clearing that was their assigned
starting location, an area of open space with old and rotting tree
stumps that had been cleared away for some unknown purpose, ground
coated with a small scattering of blown leaves and the dried grey
remnants of grass that had failed the test of summer’s heat, and the sun
shining down brilliantly from above.

Around him were the twenty-three soldiers that Professor Quirrell had
assigned to him. Nearly all of Gryffindor had signed up, of course, and
more than half of Slytherin, and less than half of Hufflepuff, and a
handful of Ravenclaw. In Harry’s army there were twelve Gryffindors and
six Slytherins and four Hufflepuffs and one Ravenclaw besides himself…
not that there was any way to tell that by looking at the uniforms. No
red, no green, no yellow, no blue. Just Muggle camouflage patterns, and
a patch on the breast with the device of a hand poised to snap its
fingers.

Harry looked upon his twenty-three soldiers, all wearing the same
uniforms with no marks of group identity save that single patch.

And lo, Harry smiled, because he understood what this part of Professor
Quirrell’s master plan was about; and Harry was taking full advantage of
it for his own purposes, too.

There was a legendary episode in social psychology called the Robbers
Cave experiment. It had been set up in the bewildered aftermath of World
War II, with the intent of investigating the causes and remedies of
conflicts between groups. The scientists had set up a summer camp for 22
boys from 22 different schools, selecting them to all be from stable
middle-class families. The first phase of the experiment had been
intended to investigate what it took to start a conflict between groups.
The 22 boys had been divided into two groups of 11—

—and this had been quite sufficient.

The hostility had started from the moment the two groups had become
aware of each others’ existences in the state park, insults being hurled
on the first meeting. They’d named themselves the Eagles and the
Rattlers (they hadn’t needed names for themselves when they thought they
were the only ones in the park) and had proceeded to develop contrasting
group stereotypes, the Rattlers thinking of themselves as
rough-and-tough and swearing heavily, the Eagles correspondingly
deciding to think of themselves as upright-and-proper.

The other part of the experiment had been testing how to resolve group
conflicts. Bringing the boys together to watch fireworks hadn’t worked
at all. They’d just shouted at each other and stayed apart. What had
worked was warning them that there might be vandals in the park, and the
two groups needing to work together to solve a failure of the park’s
water system. A common task, a common enemy.

Harry had a strong suspicion Professor Quirrell had understood this
principle very well indeed when he had chosen to create three armies per
year.

Three armies.

Not four.

And definitely not segregated by House… except that no Slytherins had
been assigned to Draco besides Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle.

It was things like this which reassured Harry that Professor Quirrell,
despite his affected Dark atmosphere and his pretence of neutrality in
the conflict between Good and Evil, was secretly backing Good, not that
Harry would ever dare say that out loud.

And Harry had decided to take full advantage of Professor Quirrell’s
plan to define a group identity his way.

The Rattlers, once they’d met the Eagles, had started thinking of
themselves as rough-and-tough, and they’d conducted themselves
accordingly.

The Eagles had thought of themselves as good-and-proper.

And in that bright forest clearing, scattered around the old and rotting
tree stumps, outlined in the sun shining down brilliantly from above,
General Potter and his twenty-three soldiers were arranged in nothing
remotely resembling a formation. Some soldiers stood, some soldiers sat,
some stood on one leg just to be different.

It was the Chaos Legion, after all.

And if there wasn’t a reason to stand in neat little lines, Harry had
said disdainfully, there weren’t going to be neat little lines.

Harry had divided the army into 6 squads of 4 soldiers each, each squad
commanded by a Squad Suggester. All troops were under strict orders to
disobey any orders they were given if it seemed like a good idea at the
time, including that one… unless Harry or the Squad Suggester prefixed
the order with “Merlin says”, in which case you were supposed to
actually obey.

The Chaos Legion’s chief attack was to split up and run in from multiple
directions, randomly changing vectors and firing the approved sleep
spell as rapidly as you could rebuild the magical strength. And if you
saw a chance to distract or confuse the enemy, you took it.

Fast. Creative. Unpredictable. Non-homogeneous. Don’t just obey orders,
think about whether what you’re doing right now makes sense.

Harry wasn’t quite as sure as he’d pretended that this was the optimum
of military efficiency… but he’d been given a golden opportunity to
change how some students thought about themselves, and that was how he
intended to use it.

Five minutes to wartime, according to Harry’s watch.

General Potter walked (not marched) over to where his air force was
waiting tensely, broomsticks already clutched firmly in their hands.

“All wings report in,” said General Potter. They’d rehearsed this during
their one training session on Saturday.

“Red Leader standing by,” said Seamus Finnigan, who had no idea what it
meant.

“Red Five standing by,” said Dean Thomas, who’d waited his entire life
to say it.

“Green Leader standing by,” Theodore Nott said rather stiffly.

“Green Forty-One standing by,” Tracey Davis said.

“I want you in the air the instant we hear the bell,” said General
Potter. “Do not engage, repeat, do not engage. Evade if under fire.” (Of
course you did not aim sleep spells at broomsticks; you fired a spell
that gave a temporary red glow to whatever it hit. If you hit the
broomstick or the rider, they were out of the war.) “Red Leader and Red
Five, fly toward Malfoy’s army as fast as you can, stay as high as you
can while still seeing them, return the instant you know for sure what
they’re doing. Green Leader, do the same for Granger’s army. Green
Forty-One, fly above us and watch for any approaching broomsticks or
soldiers, you and only you are authorized to fire. And remember, I
didn’t say ‘Merlin says’ for any of that, but we do really need the
information. For Chaos!”

“For Chaos!” the four echoed with varying degrees of enthusiasm.

Harry expected Hermione to launch an immediate attack on Draco, in which
case he’d move his troops into position and start supporting her, but
only after she’d taken severe losses and caused some damage. He would
frame it as a heroic rescue, if possible; it wouldn’t do to have
Sunshine thinking that Chaos wasn’t their friend, after all.

But just in case she didn’t… well, that was why the Chaos Legion was
staying put until Green Leader reported back.

Draco’s moves would be in his own self-interest. He would predictably
ready his army to defend against Hermione; he might or might not realize
that Harry had been lying about waiting to attack until after that
battle finished. Harry had still put two broomsticks on Dragon Army,
just in case they were doing something, and just in case Draco or
Mr Goyle or Mr Crabbe was good enough to shoot a broomstick out of the
sky.

But General Granger was the unpredictable one, and Harry couldn’t move
until he knew how she was moving.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the heart of the forest, with shadow patterns dancing on the ground
as leafy canopies swayed high above, General Malfoy stood where the
trees were relatively sparser, and looked out on his troops with calm
satisfaction. Six units of three troops each, the Aerial Unit of four
(to which Gregory was assigned), and the Command Unit, which was himself
and Vincent. They’d only drilled for a short time on the previous
Saturday, but Draco was confident that he’d managed to explain the
basics. Stay with your mates, watch their back and trust them to watch
yours. Move as a single body. Obey orders and show no fear. Aim, fire,
move, aim again, fire again.

The six units were formed up in a defensive perimeter around Draco,
watchfully gazing outward into the forest. Back-to-back they stood,
wands gripped low until they needed to strike.

They already looked remarkably like the Auror units whose training Draco
had watched during his father’s inspections.

Chaos and Sunshine weren’t going to know what hit them.

“Attention,” said General Malfoy.

The six units unfolded and spun toward Draco; the faces of his
broomstick riders turned from where they stood with broomsticks already
in hand.

Draco had decided to wait on demanding salutes until after they won
their first battle, when Gryffindors and Hufflepuffs would be more
willing to salute a Malfoy.

But his soldiers were already standing straight enough, especially the
Gryffindors, that Draco wondered if he’d even needed to delay. Gregory
had quietly listened, and reported back that Draco’s volunteering to
stand by Harry Potter in Defence class, that time when Professor
Quirrell had taught Harry how to lose, had marked Draco as an acceptable
commander. At least if you happened to be assigned to his army. Not all
Slytherins are alike; there are Slytherins, and then there are
Slytherins was what the Gryffindors in Draco’s army were quoting to
their Housemates.

Draco was frankly astounded at how incredibly easy that had been. Draco
had protested at first about not being assigned any Slytherins, and
Professor Quirrell had told him that if he wanted to be the first Malfoy
to gain complete political control of the country, he needed to learn
how to govern the other three-quarters of the population. It was things
like this which reassured Draco that Professor Quirrell had a great deal
more sympathy for the good guys than Professor Quirrell was letting on.

The actual battle wouldn’t be easy, especially if Granger did attack the
Dragons first. Draco had agonized over whether to commit all his forces
against Granger immediately in a pre-emptive strike, but had worried
that (1) Harry had been misleading him completely about what Granger was
likely to do, and (2) Harry had been misleading him about waiting until
after Granger’s attack to join the battle.

Though Dragon Army had a secret weapon, three of them in fact, which
might be enough to win even if they were attacked by both armies at
once…

It was almost time, and that meant it was time for the pre-battle speech
that Draco had composed and memorized.

“The battle is about to begin,” Draco said. His voice was calm and
precise. “Remember everything that I and Mr Crabbe and Mr Goyle showed
you. An army wins because it is disciplined and deadly. General Potter
and the Chaos Legion will not be disciplined. Granger and the Sunshine
Regiment will not be deadly. We are disciplined, we are deadly, we are
Dragons. The battle is about to begin, and we are about to win it.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Extempore speech given by General Potter to the Chaos Legion, immediately before their first battle, on November 3rd, 1991, at 2:56 p.m.:)

My troops, I’m not going to lie to you, our situation today is very
grim. Dragon Army has never lost a single battle. And Hermione Granger…
has a very good memory. The truth is, most of you are probably going to
die. And the survivors will envy the dead. But we have to win this. We
have to win this so that some day, our children can enjoy the taste of
chocolate again. Everything is at stake here. Literally everything. If
we lose, the whole universe just blinks out like a light bulb. And now I
realize that most of you don’t know what a light bulb is. Well, take it
from me, it’s bad. But if we have to go down, let’s go down fighting,
like heroes, so that as the darkness closes in, we can think to
ourselves, at least we had fun. Are you afraid to die? I know I am. I
can feel those cold shivers of fear like someone is pumping ice-cream
into my shirt. But I know… that history is watching us. It was watching
us when we changed into our uniforms. It was probably taking pictures.
And history, my troops, is written by the victors. If we win this, we
can write our own history. A history in which Hogwarts was founded by
four renegade house elves. We can make everyone study that history, even
though it isn’t true, and if they don’t answer the right way on our
tests… they’ll fail the class. Isn’t that worth dying for? No, don’t
answer that. Some things are better left unknown. None of us knows why
we’re here. None of us knows why we’re fighting. We just woke up in
these uniforms in this mysterious forest, knowing only that there was no
way to get our names and memories back except victory. The students in
those other armies out there… they’re just like us. They don’t want to
die. They’re fighting to protect each other, the only friends they have
left. They’re fighting because they know they have families who’ll miss
them, even if they can’t remember now. They may even be fighting to save
the world. But we have a better reason to fight than they do. We fight
because we like it. We fight to amuse eldritch monstrosities from beyond
Space and Time. We fight because we’re Chaos. Soon the final battle will
begin, so let me say now, because I won’t get a chance later, that it
was an honour to be your commander, however briefly. Thank you, thank
you all. And remember, your goal isn’t just to cut down the enemy, it’s
to make them afraid.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A great booming gong echoed over the forest.

And the Sunshine Regiment began to march.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tension rose and rose, as Harry and the nineteen other soldiers who
remained waited for the ærial warriors to report back. It shouldn’t take
long, broomsticks were fast and the distances in the forest were not
great—

Two broomsticks approached, at speed, from the direction of Draco’s
camp, and all the soldiers tensed. They weren’t executing the manœuvres
that were today’s code for a friendly broomstick.

“Scatter and fire!” roared General Potter, and then suited action to
words, scurrying off at top speed toward the forest cover; and then as
soon as Harry was among the trees, he spun back, raised his wand, tried
to seek out the broomstick in the sky—

“Clear!” shouted a voice. “They’re heading back!”

Harry gave a mental shrug. There’d been no way to prevent Draco from
obtaining that information, and he’d only learn that they’d been
standing still.

And the Chaotics slowly emerged from the forest—

“Broomstick approaching from Granger’s direction!” yelled another voice.
“I think it’s Green Leader, he did the dip and roll!”

Moments later Theodore Nott dived out of the sky and pulled up in the
midst of the soldiers.

“Granger has divided her forces in two!” yelled Nott as he hovered on
his broomstick. There was sweat staining his uniform, and all the
reserve was gone from his voice. “She’s attacking both armies! Two
brooms covering each force, they pursued me halfway here!”

Divided her army, what on Earth—

A large force concentrating fire on a small force could deplete that
force rapidly without taking much damage in return. If twenty soldiers
faced ten soldiers, twenty sleep spells would be aimed at the ten
soldiers with only ten sleep spells going the other way, so unless every
one of those first sleep spells hit its target, the smaller force would
lose more people than they could manage to take down with them. Defeated
in detail was the military term for what happened when you divided your
forces like that. What could Hermione possibly be thinking…

Then Harry realized.

She’s being fair.

It was going to be a long year in Defence class.

“All right,” Harry said loudly, so the army could hear. “We’ll wait
until the Red Wing reports in, and then we’ll go cloud up some
Sunshine.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco listened to the flyers’ reports with his face calm, all his shock
concealed inside. What could Granger possibly be thinking?

Then Draco realized.

It’s a feint.

One of Sunshine’s two forces would change direction, and both would
converge on… who?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neville Longbottom marched through the forest toward the approaching
Sunny force, occasionally glancing up at the sky for broomsticks. Beside
him marched his squad comrades, Melvin Coote and Lavender Brown of
Gryffindor, and Allen Flint of Slytherin. Allen Flint was their Squad
Suggester, though Harry had first said to Neville, in private, that the
position was his if he wanted it.

Harry had said quite a lot of things to Neville in private, starting
with “You know, Neville, if you want to become as awesome as the
imaginary Neville who lives in your head but isn’t allowed to do
anything because you’re scared, then you really should sign up for
Professor Quirrell’s armies.”

Neville was now sure the Boy-Who-Lived could read minds. There was just
no other way Harry Potter could’ve known. Neville had never talked about
that with anyone, or given any sign; and other people weren’t like that,
not that Neville had ever noticed.

And Harry’s promise had come true, this did feel different from sparring
in Defence class. Neville had hoped that sparring would fix everything
that was wrong with him, and, well, it hadn’t. Even if he could fire a
few spells at another student in class with Professor Quirrell watching
to make sure nothing went wrong, even if he could dodge and fire back
when it was allowed and everyone else was expecting it and they would
stare at him funny if he didn’t do it, none of that was the same as
being able to stand up for himself.

But being part of an army…

Something strange was stirring inside Neville, as he marched through the
forest alongside his comrades, upon their uniforms an insignia of
fingers poised to snap.

He was allowed to walk if he wanted to, but he just felt like marching.

Beside him, Melvin and Lavender and Allen all seemed to feel like
marching too.

And Neville softly began to sing the Song of Chaos.

The tune was what a Muggle would have identified as John Williams’s
Imperial March, also known as “Darth Vader’s Theme”; and the words Harry
had added were easy to remember.

  Doom doom doom
  Doom doom doom doom doom doom
  Doom doom doom
  Doom doom doom doom doom doom
  DOOM doom DOOM
  Doom doom doom-doom-doom doom doom
  Doom doom-doom-doom doom doom
  Doom doom doom, doom doom doom.

By the second line the others had joined in, and soon you could hear the
same soft chant coming from nearby parts of the forest.

And Neville marched alongside his fellow Chaos Legionnaires,
strange feelings stirring in his heart,
imagination becoming reality,
as from his lips poured a fearful song of doom.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry stared at the bodies scattered across the forest. Something inside
him felt a bit queasy, and he had to remind himself hard that they were
only sleeping. There were girls among the fallen, and that made it a lot
worse somehow, and he would have to be careful never to mention that in
front of Hermione or the Aurors would find his remains stuffed into a
small teapot.

Half of Sunshine army hadn’t put up much of a fight against all of
Chaos. The nine ground soldiers had run in screaming inarticulately with
Simple Shields raised, circular screens to protect their faces and
chests. But you couldn’t fire and hold the shield at the same time, and
Harry’s soldiers had simply aimed for the legs. All but one of the
Sunnies had fallen over as soon as the cries of “Somnium!” filled the
air. That last one had dropped her shield and managed to take out one of
Harry’s soldiers before being hit by the second wave of sleep spells
(the Sleep Hex was safe for multiple hits). The two Sunny broomsticks
had been much harder to take down and had accounted for three Chaotics
before being felled by massed ground fire.

Hermione wasn’t among the fallen. Draco must have got her and that was
making Harry feel angry on some completely incomprehensible level, he
wasn’t sure if he was feeling protective toward Hermione, or cheated
that he hadn’t been the one to do it, or maybe both.

“All right,” Harry said, raising his voice. “Let’s everyone be clear on
one thing, that wasn’t a real fight. That was General Granger making a
mistake in her first battle. Today’s actual fight is with Dragon Army
and it’s not going to be anything like this. It’s going to be a lot more
fun. Let’s move out.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A broomstick fell out of the sky, approaching terrifyingly fast, and
spun on its end and decelerated so hard you could almost hear the air
screaming in protest, and came to a halt directly beside Draco.

It wasn’t dangerous showing off. Gregory Goyle simply was that good and
he didn’t waste time.

“Potter’s coming,” Gregory said with no trace of his usual fake drawl.
“They’ve still got all four of their brooms, you want me to take them
out?”

“No,” Draco said sharply. “Fighting over their army gives them too much
of an advantage, they’ll fire on you from the ground and even you might
not be able to dodge it all. Wait until the forces engage.”

Draco had lost four Dragons in exchange for twelve Sunnies. Apparently
General Granger actually had been that incredibly stupid, though she
hadn’t been among the attackers, so Draco hadn’t had a chance to taunt
her or ask her what in Merlin’s name she had been thinking.

The true battle, they all knew, would be with Harry Potter.

“Prepare yourselves!” roared Draco at his troops. “Stay together with
your mates, act as a unit, fire as soon as the enemy is in range!”

Discipline against Chaos.

It shouldn’t be much of a fight.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The adrenaline was pumping and pumping into Neville’s blood until he
felt like he could hardly breathe.

“We’re closing in,” said General Potter in a voice barely loud enough to
carry to the whole army. “Time to spread out.”

Neville’s comrades moved away from him. They would still support each
other, but if you clustered together, the enemy would have a much easier
time hitting you; fire aimed at one of your comrades might miss and get
you instead. You would be a lot harder to hit if you spread out and
moved as fast as you could.

The first thing General Potter had done, during their training session,
was get them to fire on each other when both sides were running fast, or
both stood still and took time to aim, or one was moving and one was
standing still—the reverse charm to the Sleep Hex was simple, though you
weren’t allowed to use it during real battles. General Potter had
carefully recorded everything that happened, done some figuring and
ciphering, and then announced that it made more sense for them to focus,
not on slowing down to aim carefully, but on moving fast so they
wouldn’t get hit.

It still bothered Neville a little not to be marching side-by-side with
his comrades, but the scary battle-cries they’d learned were already
thundering in his head and that made up for a lot.

This time, Neville silently vowed to himself, his voice was absolutely
positively not going to squeak.

“Shields up,” said General Potter, “power to forward deflectors.”

“Contego,” murmured the army, and the circular screens sprang into
existence before their heads and chests.

A sharp taste filled Neville’s mouth. General Potter wouldn’t have
ordered them to cast shields unless they were almost in range. Neville
could see the uniformed shapes of Dragons moving through the dense
screens of trees, and the Dragons would be seeing them as well—

“Attack!” came a cry from the distance, the voice of Draco Malfoy, and
General Potter bellowed, “Charge—”

All the adrenaline in Neville’s blood was unleashed, and his legs took
over, sending him flying faster than he’d ever run before, straight
toward the enemy, knowing without needing to look that all his comrades
were doing the same.

“Blood for the blood god!” screamed Neville. “Skulls for the skull
throne! Ia! Shub-Niggurath! The enemy’s gate is sideways!”

There was a soundless impact as a sleep spell wasted itself against
Neville’s shield. If there’d been other spells fired, they hadn’t hit.

Neville saw the brief look of fear on Wayne Hopkins’s face, as he stood
besides two Gryffindors Neville didn’t recognize, and then—

—Neville dropped the Simple Shield and fired at Wayne—

—missed—

—his racing legs went straight past the enemy grouping and toward
another three Dragons, their wands coming up on him, their mouths
opening—

—not even thinking about it, Neville dived down to the forest floor just
as three voices cried “Somnium!”

It hurt, hard stones and hard twigs digging into Neville as he rolled,
it wasn’t as bad as falling off his broomstick but he’d still hit the
ground pretty hard, and then Neville, with sudden insight, lay still and
closed his eyes.

“Stop that!” screamed a voice. “Don’t shoot us, we’re Dragons!”

With a flash of glorious satisfaction, Neville realized that he’d
managed to get between two groups of Dragons just as one group had fired
on him. Harry had talked about this as a tactic for making the enemy
afraid to fire, but apparently it worked a bit better than that.

And not only that, the Dragons believed they’d got him, since they’d
seen Neville fall just as they fired.

Neville counted to twenty inside his head, then opened his eyes a crack.

The three Dragons were very near him, heads spinning rapidly as cries of
“Somnium!” and “Skulls for the skull throne!” filled the air around
them. All three had Simple Shields up now.

Neville’s wand was still in his hand, and it didn’t take much effort to
point it at one boy’s boots and whisper “Somnium.”

Neville quickly closed his eyes and relaxed his hand as he heard the boy
fall to the ground.

“Where’d it come from?” screamed Justin Finch-Fletchley’s voice, and
Neville heard rustles on the leafy forest floor, as of two Dragons
spinning around looking for an enemy.

“Reform ranks!” bellowed Malfoy’s voice. “To me, everyone, don’t let
them scatter you!”

Neville’s ears heard the two Dragons actually jump over his prone body
as they ran off.

Neville opened his eyes, pushed himself to his feet a bit painfully, and
then pointed his wand and said the new charm that General Potter had
taught them all. They couldn’t do real illusion spells to confuse the
enemy, but even at their age they could—

“Ventriliquo,” whispered Neville, pointing the wand to one side of
Justin and the other boy, and then yelled, “For Cthulhu and glory!”

Justin and the other boy stopped abruptly, turning their shields toward
where Neville had moved his battle-cry, and that was when multiple cries
of “Somnium!” filled the air and the other boy dropped before Neville
was finished aiming.

“The last one’s mine!” yelled Neville, and then he started sprinting
straight toward Justin, who’d been mean to him until the older
Hufflepuffs straightened him out. Neville was surrounded by his comrades
and that meant—

“Special attack, Chaotic Leap!” howled Neville as he ran, and felt his
body lighten, then lighten twice again, as his comrades got their wands
turned toward him and quietly cast the Hover Charm, and Neville raised
his left hand and snapped his fingers and then used his legs to push off
the ground as hard as he could and soared through the air. Sheer shock
painted Justin’s face as Neville went over the other boy’s shield and
pointed his wand down at the form passing beneath him and cried
“Somnium!”

Because he’d felt like it, that was why.

Neville didn’t quite get his feet turned around properly and rather
ploughed into the ground as he landed, but two out of three of the other
Chaos Legionnaires had managed to hold their wands on him throughout and
he didn’t hit very hard.

And Neville got to his feet, panting. He knew he should be moving,
people were yelling “Somnium!” all over the place—

“I am Neville, last scion of Longbottom!” screamed Neville to the sky
above, holding his wand pointed straight up as though to challenge the
blazing blue heaven itself, knowing that nothing after this day would
ever be the same again. “Neville of Chaos! Face me if you da—”

(When Neville woke up afterwards, he was told that Dragon Army had taken
this as their cue to counter-attack.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The girl beside Harry slumped to the ground, taking the shot meant for
him, and he could hear Mr Goyle’s distant gloating laugh as his
broomstick blasted past them, cutting the air so hard it should have
shattered in his wake.

“Luminos!” cried one of the boys next to Harry, who hadn’t been able to
rebuild the magical strength fast enough to do it earlier, and Mr Goyle
dodged it without a pause.

Chaos had only six soldiers left, now, and Dragon Army had two, and the
only problem was that one of those soldiers was invincible, and the
other one was using up three soldiers just to cover him inside his
shield.

They’d lost more soldiers to Mr Goyle than all the other Dragons put
together, he was weaving and dodging through the air so fast that no-one
could hit him, and he could shoot people while he did that.

Harry had thought of all sorts of ways to stop Mr Goyle but none of them
were safe, even using the Hover Charm to slow him down (it was a
continuous beam and much easier to aim) wouldn’t be safe because he
might fall off the broomstick, throwing things in his way wouldn’t be
safe, and that was getting harder and harder to remember as Harry’s
blood froze over.

It’s a game. You’re not trying to kill him. Don’t throw away all your
future plans for a game…

Harry could see the pattern, he could see how Mr Goyle was weaving, he
could see how and when they all needed to fire in order to create a web
of shots that Mr Goyle wouldn’t be able to dodge, but he just hadn’t
been able to explain it fast enough to his soldiers, they couldn’t
coordinate their shots well enough, and now they didn’t have enough
people left to do it—

I refuse to lose, not like this, not my whole army to one soldier!

Mr Goyle’s broomstick turned faster than anything should have been able
to turn and started to angle in toward Harry and his surviving troops,
he could sense the boy beside him tensing, getting ready to throw
himself in front of his general.

SCREW THIS.

Harry’s wand came up, focusing on Mr Goyle, Harry’s mind visualized the
pattern, and Harry’s lips opened and his voice screamed—

“Luminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminosluminos—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Harry’s eyes opened again, he found himself resting in a
comfortable position with his hands folded over his chest, holding his
wand like a fallen hero.

Slowly, Harry sat up. His magic was aching, a strange sensation but not
an entirely unpleasant one, much like the burn and lethargy that
followed hard physical exercise.

“The general’s awake!” cried a voice, and Harry blinked and focused in
that direction.

Four of his soldiers held their wands on a shimmering prismatic
hemisphere, and Harry realized that the battle wasn’t over. Right… he
hadn’t been hit by a Sleep Hex, just exhausted himself, so when he woke
up, he was still in the game.

Harry suspected he was going to get a lecture from someone-or-other
about not exhausting his magic to the point of unconsciousness over a
children’s game. But he hadn’t hurt Mr Goyle when he’d lost his temper,
and that was the important thing.

Then Harry’s mind clicked on another implication, and he looked down at
the steel ring on his left hand’s pinky finger, and almost swore out
loud when he saw that the tiny diamond was missing and there was a
marshmallow lying on the ground near where he’d fallen.

He’d sustained that Transfiguration for seventeen days, and would now
need to start over.

Could’ve been worse. He could’ve done this fourteen days later, after
Professor McGonagall had approved him to Transfigure his father’s rock.
That was one very good lesson to learn the easy way.

Note to self: Always remove ring from finger before completely
exhausting magic.

Harry pushed himself up, making rather hard going of it. Using up your
magic didn’t exhaust your muscles, but dodging around trees certainly
did.

He staggered over to the iridescent hemisphere that contained Draco
Malfoy, who was holding his wand aloft to sustain the shield, and
smiling coldly at Harry.

“Where’s the fifth soldier?” said Harry.

“Um…” said a boy whose name Harry couldn’t remember at the moment. “I
fired a Sleep Hex at the shield and it bounced off and hit Lavender, I
mean the angle shouldn’t have been right but it did…”

Draco was smirking inside the shield.

“So let me guess,” Harry said, looking Draco directly in the eyes,
“those neat little trios are the formation used by professional magical
militaries? Made up of trained soldiers who can easily hit moving
targets if their own hands are steady, and who can combine their
defensive powers so long as they stay together? Unlike your soldiers?”

The smirk had vanished from Draco’s face, which was now hard and grim.

“You know,” Harry said lightly, knowing that none of the others would
understand the real message passing between them, “it just goes to show
that you should always question everything you see your role models
doing, and ask why it’s being done, and whether it makes sense in
context for you to do it too. Don’t forget to apply that advice to real
life, by the way. And thanks for the slow-moving clustered targets.”

Because Draco had already had that lecture, and, Harry suspected,
discounted it out of suspicion that Harry was trying to shift his
loyalties further away from pureblood tradition. Which of course Harry
was. But this example would make an excellent excuse, next Saturday, to
claim that questioning authority was a merely practical technique for
real life. And Harry would also mention the experiments he’d run, first
with individuals and then with groups, to check that his ideas about the
importance of speed had actually been correct, by way of hammering home
the point of Draco needing to keep an eye out at all times for chances
to apply the methods in everyday practice.

“You haven’t won yet, General Potter!” snarled Draco. “Maybe we’ll run
out of time, and Professor Quirrell will call it a draw.”

A fair and worrisome point. The war only ended when Professor Quirrell,
in his personal judgement, decided one army had won by practical
real-world standards. There was no formal victory condition, Professor
Quirrell had explained, because then Harry would figure out how to game
the rules. Harry had to admit this was a fair cop.

And Harry couldn’t blame Professor Quirrell for not calling an end,
because it was plausible that the last soldier of Dragon Army could take
out all five survivors of the Chaos Legion.

“All right,” Harry said. “Does anyone know anything about General
Malfoy’s shield spell?”

It developed that Draco’s shield was a version of the standard Protego
which had several disadvantages, the most important of which was that
the shield couldn’t move with the caster.

The upside—or from Harry’s perspective, downside—was that it was easier
to learn, easier to cast, and much easier to sustain for long times.

They would need to hammer the shield with attack spells in order to
bring it down.

And Draco could apparently exert some control over the angle of
reflection at which the spells would bounce off.

The thought occurred to Harry that they could use Wingardium Leviosa to
pile up heavy rocks on the shield until Draco couldn’t sustain it
against the pressure… but then the rocks might fall in afterwards and
hit Draco, and injuring the enemy general for real was not among today’s
goals.

“So,” said Harry. “Are there such things as specialized shield-piercing
spells?”

There were.

Harry asked if any of his soldiers knew them.

No-one did.

Draco was smirking again, inside his shield.

Harry asked if there was any sort of attack spell that wouldn’t bounce.

Lightning bolts, it seemed, were usually absorbed by shields instead of
bouncing off them.

…No-one knew how to cast any sort of lightning-related spell.

Draco sniggered.

Harry sighed.

He quite deliberately laid his wand on the ground.

And Harry announced, with some weariness in his voice, that he would
just go ahead and take down the shield himself, using some method that
would remain mysterious; and everyone else was to fire on Draco as soon
as his shield went down.

The Chaos Legionnaires looked nervous.

Draco looked calm, which was to say, controlled.

A thin, folded blanket came out of Harry’s pouch.

Harry sat down next to the shimmering shield, and pulled the blanket
over his head so no-one could see what he did—except Draco, of course.

From Harry’s pouch came a car battery and a set of jumper cables.

…it wasn’t like he’d been about to leave the Muggle world to start a new
era of magical research, and not take along any way of generating
electricity.

Shortly after, the Chaos Legionnaires heard the sound of fingers
snapping, followed by a crackling noise from beneath the blanket. The
shield started glowing more brightly, and Harry’s voice said, “Don’t be
distracted please, eyes on General Malfoy.”

The strain was showing on Draco’s face, along with the fury and
annoyance and frustration.

Harry smiled up at him, and mouthed, Tell you later.

And that was when a spiral of green energy shot out of the forest and
smashed into Draco’s shield, which shrieked like pieces of sharp glass
being rubbed together, and Draco staggered.

In sudden, frantic panic, Harry took the jumper cables off the battery
and fed them into the pouch, then he fed the battery itself into the
pouch, and then he tore off the blanket and grabbed his wand and stood
up.

All of his soldiers were still there and glancing around frantically.

“Contego,” Harry said, and his soldiers followed suit, but Harry didn’t
even know which direction the shield ought to be pointing in. “Did
anyone see where that came from?” Shaken heads. “And General Malfoy,
would you mind telling me if you got General Granger?”

“Why yes,” Draco said acidly, “I mind.”

Oh, hell.

Harry’s mind began calculating, Draco inside the shield, Draco worn out
now to some degree, Harry worn out too, Hermione in the woods
who-knew-where, Harry and four other Chaotics left…

“You know, General Granger,” Harry said out loud, “you really should’ve
waited to attack until after I’d fought General Malfoy. You might’ve
been able to get all the survivors.”

From somewhere came a girl’s high-pitched laughter.

Harry froze.

That wasn’t Hermione.

And that was when the dreadful, eerie, cheerful chant began to rise,
coming from all around them.

“Don’t be frightened, don’t be sad,
We’ll only hurt you if you’re bad…”

“Granger cheated!” burst out Draco inside the shield. “She woke up her
soldiers! Why doesn’t Professor Quirrell—”

“Let me guess,” Harry said, the sickness already churning in his
stomach. He really hated losing. “It was a very easy battle, right? They
dropped like flies?”

“Yes,” Draco said. “We got them all on the first shot—”

The look of horrified realization spread from Draco to the Chaos
Legionnaires.

“No,” Harry said, “we didn’t.”

Camouflaged forms were appearing from among the trees.

“Allies?” Harry said.

“Allies,” Draco said.

“Good,” said General Granger’s voice, and a spiral of green energy
blazed out of the woods and shattered Draco’s shield to splinters.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

General Granger surveyed the battlefield with a definite feeling of
satisfaction. She was down to nine Sunshine Soldiers, but that was
probably enough to handle the last survivor of the enemy forces,
especially when Parvati and Anthony and Ernie were already holding their
wands on General Potter, whom she’d ordered taken alive (well,
conscious).

It was Bad, she knew, but she’d really really really wanted to gloat.

“There’s a trick, isn’t there?” said Harry, the strain showing in his
voice. “There has to be some trick. You can’t just turn into a perfect
general. Not on top of everything else. You’re not that Slytherin! You
don’t write creepy poetry! No-one’s that good at everything!”

General Granger glanced around at her Sunshine Soldiers, and then looked
back at Harry. Everyone was probably watching this on the screens
outside.

And General Granger said, “I can do anything if I study hard enough.”

“Oh now that’s just bu—”

“Somnium.”

Harry slumped to the ground in mid-sentence.

“SUNSHINE WINS,” intoned the huge voice of Professor Quirrell, seeming
to come from everywhere and nowhere.

“Niceness has triumphed!” cried General Granger.

“Hooray!” shouted the Sunshine Soldiers. Even the Gryffindor boys said
it, and they said it with pride.

“And what’s the moral of today’s battle?” said General Granger.

“We can do anything if we study hard enough!”

And the survivors of the Sunshine Regiment marched off toward the
victory field, singing their marching song as they went:

  Don’t be frightened, don’t be sad,
  We’ll only hurt you if you’re bad,
  And send you to a home that’s true,
  With new friends to watch over you,
  Be sure to tell them you were sent
  By Granger’s Sunshine Regiment!

31. Working in Groups, Part II

Aftermaths

HARRY paced backward and forward in his general’s office, which made a
wonderful room for pacing, it didn’t have any other uses as far as he
could tell.

How?

How?

Hermione shouldn’t have won that battle! Not on her first try, not when
she wasn’t at all violent by her nature, automatically being a great
military commander on top of everything else was too much even for her.

Had she read about the tactic in a military history book? But it hadn’t
been just that one tactic, she’d had her forces perfectly positioned to
block any retreat, her troops had been better coordinated than his or
Draco’s…

Had Professor Quirrell broken his promise not to help her? Had he given
her the diary of General Tacticus or something?

Harry was missing something here, something really important, and his
mind went around and around in circles, and he still couldn’t figure it
out.

Finally Harry sighed. He wasn’t getting anywhere on this, and he had to
go and learn the Breaking Drill Hex from Hermione or someone before the
next battle—Professor Quirrell had explained to Harry, his voice amused
but with a sharp undertone of warning, that “no magical items except the
ones I give you” included Muggle technology no matter how much that
wasn’t magic. Plus Harry also needed to figure out how to bring down
Mr Goyle next time…

Battles counted for a lot of Quirrell points if you were a general, and
Harry needed to get cracking if he wanted to win Professor Quirrell’s
Christmas wish.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In his private room at Slytherin, Draco Malfoy stared off into space, as
though the wall in front of his desk was the most fascinating surface in
the world.

How?

How?

In retrospect it had been an obvious sort of idea as cunning plots went,
but Granger wasn’t supposed to be cunning! She’d been too much of a
Hufflepuff to use a Simple Strike Hex! Had Professor Quirrell been
advising her despite his promise, or…

And then Draco finally did what he should have done much earlier.

What he should have done after the first time he met with Granger.

What Harry Potter had told him to do, trained him to do, and yet Harry
had also warned Draco that it would take time to make his brain realize
that the methods applied to real life, and Draco hadn’t understood that
until today. He could have avoided every single one of his mistakes if
he’d just applied the things Harry had already told him—

Draco said out loud, “I notice that I am confused.”

Your strength as a rationalist is your ability to be more confused by
fiction than by reality…

Draco was confused.

Therefore, something he believed was fiction.

Granger should not have been able to do all that.

Therefore, she probably hadn’t.

I promise not to help General Granger in any way that the two of you
don’t know about.

With sudden horrified realization, Draco swept papers out of the way,
hunting through the mess on his desk, until he found it.

And there it was.

Right in the list of people and equipment assigned to each of the three
armies.

Curse Professor Quirrell!

Draco had read it and he still hadn’t seen it—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The afternoon sunlight poured down into the office of the Sunshine
Regiment, illuminating General Granger in her chair as though she glowed
with a golden aura.

“How long do you think it will take Malfoy to figure it out?” said
General Granger.

“Not long,” said Colonel Blaise Zabini. “He may have already. How long
will it take Potter to figure it out?”

“Forever,” said General Granger, “unless Malfoy tells him, or one of his
own soldiers realizes. Harry Potter just doesn’t think like that.”

“Really?” said Captain Ernie Macmillan, looking up from one of the
corner tables where he was being crushed at chess by Captain Ron
Weasley. (They’d brought back all the other chairs after Malfoy had
left, of course.) “I mean it seems kind of obvious to me. Who would try
to come up with all the ideas just by themselves?”

“Harry,” said Hermione, at exactly the same time Zabini said, “Malfoy.”

“Malfoy thinks he’s way better than everyone else,” said Zabini.

“And Harry… doesn’t really see most other people like that,” said
Hermione.

It was kind of sad, actually. Harry had grown up very, very alone. It
wasn’t that he went around thinking in words that only geniuses had a
right to exist. It just wouldn’t occur to him that anyone in Hermione’s
army besides Hermione could have any good ideas.

“Anyhow,” Hermione said. “Captains Goldstein and Weasley, you’re on duty
for thinking up strategic ideas for our next battle. Captains Macmillan
and Susan—sorry, I mean Macmillan and Bones—try to come up with some
tactics we can use, also any training you think we should try. Oh, and
congratulations on your marching song, Captain Goldstein, I think it was
a big plus for esprit de corps.”

“What’re you doing?” said Susan. “And Colonel Zabini?”

Hermione stood up out of her chair, stretching. “I’ll try to figure out
what Harry Potter is thinking and Colonel Zabini will try to figure out
what Draco Malfoy might do, and both of us will join you again after we
come up with something. I’m going to walk while I think. Zabini, you
want to come along?”

“Yes, General,” said Zabini stiffly.

It hadn’t been meant as an order. Hermione sighed to herself a little.
This was going to take some getting used to, and although Zabini’s first
idea had certainly worked, she wasn’t quite sure that Professor
Quirrell’s quote mixture of positive and negative incentives unquote
would be enough to keep the Slytherin fully on her side until December
when traitors would be allowed for the first time…

She still had no idea what she was going to do with Professor Quirrell’s
Christmas wish, either. Maybe she’d just ask Mandy if she wanted
anything, when the time came around.

32. Interlude: Personal Financial Management

“BUT Headmaster,” Harry argued, some of his desperation leaking into his
voice, “leaving all of my assets in one undiversified vault full of gold
coins—it’s crazy, Headmaster! It’s like, I don’t know, doing
Transfiguration experiments without consulting a recognized authority!
You just don’t do that with money!”

From the lined face of the old wizard—underneath a festive holiday hat
like a catastrophic crash between cars of green and red cloth—a grave,
sad look peered out at Harry.

“I’m sorry, Harry,” said Dumbledore, “and I do apologize, but allowing
you control over your own finances would give you far too much
independence of action.”

Harry’s mouth opened and no sound came out. He was, literally,
speechless.

“I will permit you to withdraw five Galleons for Christmas presents,”
said Dumbledore, “which is more than any boy your age should spend, but
poses no threat, I think—”

“I can’t believe you just said that!” the words burst out of Harry’s
mouth. “You admit to being that manipulative?”

“Manipulative?” said the old wizard, smiling slightly. “No, manipulative
would be if I did not admit it, or if I had some deeper motive behind
the obvious. This is quite straightforward, Harry. You are not yet ready
to play the game, and it would be foolish to allow you thousands of
Galleons with which to upset the game board.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The bright hustle and bustle of Diagon Alley had increased by a
hundredfold and redoubled as Christmas approached, with all the shops
enshrouded in brilliant sorceries that flashed and sparkled as though
the season’s spirit was about to blaze out of control and turn the whole
area into a cheerful holiday crater. The streets were so crowded with
witches and wizards in festive and loud clothing that your eyes were
assaulted almost as severely as your ears; and it was clear, from the
bewildering variety of the shoppers, that Diagon Alley was considered an
international attraction. There were witches wrapped in giant swathes of
cloth like towelled mummies, and wizards in formal top hats and
bath-robes, and young children barely past toddling age who were
decorated with lights that blazed almost as bright as the shops
themselves, as their parents took them hand in hand through that magic
wonderland and let them shriek to their heart’s content. It was the
season to be merry.

And in the midst of all that light and cheer, a note of blackest night;
a cold, dark atmosphere that cleared a few precious paces of distance
even in the midst of all that crush.

“No,” said Professor Quirrell, with a look of grim revulsion, like he’d
just bitten into food that not only tasted horrible but was morally
repugnant to boot. It was the sort of grim face an ordinary person might
make after biting into a meat pie, and discovering that it was rotten
and had been made from kittens.

“Oh, come on,” Harry said. “You must have some ideas.”

“Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said, his lips set in a thin line, “I
agreed to act as your adult guardian on this expedition. I did not agree
to advise you on your choice of presents. I don’t do Christmas,
Mr Potter.”

“How about Newtonmas?” Harry said brightly. “Isaac Newton actually was
born on December 25th, unlike some other historical figures I could
name.”

This failed to impress Professor Quirrell.

“Look,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but I’ve got to do something special for
Fred and George and I’ve got no idea of my options.”

Professor Quirrell made a thoughtful humming sound. “You could ask which
family members they most dislike, and then hire an assassin. I know
someone from a certain government-in-exile who is quite competent, and
he would give you a discount on multiple Weasleys.”

“This Christmas,” Harry said, dropping his voice into a lower register,
“give your friends the gift… of death.”

That made Professor Quirrell smile. It went all the way to his eyes.

“Well,” said Harry, “at least you didn’t suggest getting them a pet
rat—” Harry’s mouth snapped shut, and he was regretting the words almost
as soon as they were out of his mouth.

“Pardon me?” said Professor Quirrell.

“Nothing,” Harry said at once, “long dumb story.” And telling it seemed
wrong somehow, maybe because Harry was afraid Professor Quirrell would
have laughed even if Bill Weasley hadn’t been cured and everything put
back to right…

And where had Professor Quirrell been that he’d never heard the story?
Harry had got the impression that everyone in magical Britain knew.

“Look,” said Harry, “I’m trying to solidify their loyalty to me, you
know? Make the Weasley twins my minions? Like the old saying goes: a
friend isn’t someone you use once and then throw away, a friend is
someone you use over and over again. Fred and George are two of the most
useful friends I have in Hogwarts, Professor Quirrell, and I plan to use
them over and over again. So if you’d help me be Slytherin here, and
suggest something they might be very grateful for…” Harry’s voice
trailed off invitingly.

You just had to pitch these things the right way.

They walked on for a good way before Professor Quirrell spoke again, his
voice practically dripping with distaste. “The Weasley twins are using
second-hand wands, Mr Potter. They would be reminded of your generosity
with every Charm they cast.”

Harry clapped his hands together in involuntary excitement. Just put the
money on account at Ollivander’s, and tell Mr Ollivander to never refund
it—no, better yet, to send it to Lucius Malfoy if the Weasley twins
didn’t show up before the start of their next school year. “That’s
brilliant, Professor!”

Professor Quirrell did not look like he appreciated the compliment. “I
suppose I can tolerate Christmas in that spirit, Mr Potter, though only
barely.” Then he smiled slightly. “Of course that will cost you fourteen
Galleons, and you only have five.”

“Five Galleons,” Harry said, with a sniff of outrage. “Just who does the
Headmaster think he’s dealing with, anyway?”

“I think,” said Professor Quirrell, “that it simply did not occur to him
to fear the consequences if you turned your ingenuity to the task of
obtaining funds. Though you were wise to lose, rather than making it an
explicit threat. Out of curiosity, Mr Potter, what would you have done
if I hadn’t turned away in boredom while you, in a fit of childish
pique, counted out five Galleons worth of Knuts?”

“Well, the easiest way would’ve been to borrow money from Draco Malfoy,”
said Harry.

Professor Quirrell chuckled briefly. “Seriously, Mr Potter.”

Duly noted. “Probably I’d have done a few celebrity appearances. I
wouldn’t resort to anything economically disruptive just for spending
money.” Harry had checked, and he would be allowed to keep the
Time-Turner while he went home for the holidays, so that his sleep cycle
didn’t start to rotate. But then it was also possible that someone kept
an eye out for magical day traders. The gold and silver trick would’ve
taken work on the Muggle end, and seed funding, and the goblins might’ve
become suspicious after the first cycle. And starting a real bank would
be a lot of work… Harry hadn’t quite worked out any money-making methods
that were fast and certain and safe, so he’d been very glad when
Professor Quirrell had turned out to be so easily fooled.

“I do hope those five Galleons will be enough to last, since you counted
them so carefully,” said Professor Quirrell. “I doubt the Headmaster
shall be so eager to entrust me with your vault key a second time, once
he discovers I’ve been tricked.”

“I’m sure you did your best,” Harry said with deep gratitude.

“Do you need any assistance finding a safe place to store all those
Knuts, Mr Potter?”

“Well, sort of,” said Harry. “Do you know of any good investment
opportunities, Professor Quirrell?”

And the two of them walked on, in their tiny sphere of silence and
isolation, through the brilliant and bustling crowds; and if you looked
carefully, you would see that where they went, leafy boughs faded, and
flowers withered, and children’s toys that played cheerful bells changed
to lower and more ominous notes.

Harry did notice, but he didn’t say anything, just smiled a little to
himself.

Everyone had their own way of celebrating the holidays, and the Grinch
was as much a part of Christmas as Santa.

33. Coordination Problems, Part I

E. Y.: I just recite to myself, over and over, until I can choose sleep:
It all adds up to J. K. Rowling.

The version of decision theory used in this chapter is not the
academically dominant one. It’s based on something called “timeless
decision theory” that’s under development by (among others) Gary
Drescher, Wei Dai, Vladimir Nesov, and, well… (coughs a few times) me.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE terrifying part was how fast the whole thing had spiralled out of
control.

“Albus,” Minerva said, not even trying to keep the worry out of her
voice as the two of them entered the Great Hall, “something has to be
done.”

The atmosphere at Hogwarts before Yuletide was usually bright and
cheerful. The Great Hall had already been decorated in green and red,
after a Slytherin and a Gryffindor whose Yule wedding had become a
symbol of friendship transcending Houses and allegiances, a tradition
almost as ancient as Hogwarts itself and which had even spread to Muggle
countries.

Now the students eating dinner were glancing nervously over their
shoulders, or sending vicious glares at other tables, or at some tables
arguing heatedly. You could have described the atmosphere as tense,
perhaps, but the phrase coming to Minerva’s mind was fifth degree of
caution.

Take a school, into four Houses divided…

Now into each year, add three armies at war.

And the partisanship of Dragon and Sunshine and Chaos had spread beyond
the first-years; they had become the armies for those who had no armies.
Students were wearing armbands with insignia of fire or smile or
upraised hand, and hexing each other in the corridors. All three
first-year generals had told them to stop—even Draco Malfoy had heard
her out and then nodded grimly—but their supposed followers hadn’t
listened.

Dumbledore gazed out at the tables with a distant look. “In every city,”
the old wizard quoted softly, “the population has been divided for a
long time past into the Blue and the Green factions… And they fight
against their opponents knowing not for what end they imperil
themselves… So there grows up in them against their fellow men a
hostility which has no cause, and at no time does it cease or disappear,
for it gives place neither to the ties of marriage nor of relationship
nor of friendship, and the case is the same even though those who differ
with respect to these colours be brothers or any other kin. I, for my
part, am unable to call this anything except a disease of the soul…”

“I’m sorry,” said Minerva, “I don’t—”

“Procopius,” said Dumbledore. “They took their chariot-racing very
seriously, in the Roman Empire. Yes, Minerva, I agree that something
must be done.”

“Soon,” Minerva said, her voice lowering even further. “Albus, I think
it must be done before Saturday.”

On Sunday, most students would leave Hogwarts to stay the holiday with
their families; Saturday, then, was the final battle of the three
first-year armies that would determine the awarding of Professor
Quirrell’s thrice-cursed Christmas wish.

Dumbledore glanced over at her, studying her gravely. “You fear that the
explosion will come then, and someone will be hurt.”

Minerva nodded.

“And that Professor Quirrell will be blamed.”

Minerva nodded again, her face tight. She had long since become wise in
the ways that Defence Professors were fired. “Albus,” Minerva said, “we
cannot lose Professor Quirrell now, we cannot! If he but stays through
January our fifth-years will pass their OWLs, if he stays through March
our seventh-years will pass their NEWTs, he is remedying years of
neglect in months, a whole generation will grow up able to defend
themselves in spite of the Dark Lord’s curse—you must stop the battle,
Albus! Ban the armies now!”

“I am not sure the Defence Professor would take that kindly,” said
Dumbledore, glancing over toward the Head Table where Quirrell was
drooling into his soup. “He did seem most attached to his armies, though
when I agreed I thought there would be four in each year.” The old
wizard sighed. “A clever man, probably with the best of intentions; but
perhaps not clever enough, I fear. And to ban the armies might also
trigger the explosion.”

“But then Albus, what will you do?”

The old wizard favoured her with a benign smile. “Why, I shall plot, of
course. It’s the new fashion in Hogwarts.”

And they had come too close to the Head Table for Minerva to say
anything more.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The terrifying part was how fast the whole thing had spiralled out of
control.

The first battle in December had been… messy, or so Draco had heard.

The second battle had been deranged.

And the next one would be worse, unless the three of them together
succeeded in their last desperate attempt to stop it.

“Professor Quirrell, this is insanity,” Draco said flatly. “This isn’t
Slytherin any more, it’s just…” Draco was at a loss for words. He waved
his hands helplessly. “You can’t possibly do any real plots with all
this stuff going on. Last battle, one of my soldiers faked his own
suicide. We have Hufflepuffs trying to plot, and they think they can,
but they can’t. Things just happen at random now, it doesn’t have
anything to do with who’s cleverest, or which army fights best, it’s…”
He couldn’t even describe it.

“I agree with Mr Malfoy,” said Granger in the tones of someone who
hadn’t ever expected to hear herself saying those words. “Allowing
traitors isn’t working, Professor Quirrell.”

Draco had tried forbidding anyone in his army to plot except him, and
that had just driven the plots underground, no-one wanted to be left out
when the soldiers in other armies got to plot. After miserably losing
their last battle, he’d finally given in and revoked his decree; but by
then his soldiers had already started setting their own personal plans
in motion, without any sort of central coordination.

After being told all the plans, or what his soldiers claimed were their
plans, Draco had tried to sketch a plot to win the final battle. It had
required considerably more than three different things to go right, and
Draco had used Incendio on the paper and Everto to vanish the ashes,
because if Father had seen it he would have been disowned.

Professor Quirrell’s eyelids were half-closed, his chin resting on his
hands as he leaned forward onto his desk. “And you, Mr Potter?” said the
Defence Professor. “Are you likewise in agreement?”

“All we’d need to do is shoot Franz Ferdinand and we could start World
War One,” said Harry. “It’s gone to complete chaos. I’m all for it.”

“Harry!” said Draco in utter shock.

He didn’t even realize until a second later that he’d said it at exactly
the same time, and in exactly the same tone of indignation, as Granger.

Granger shot him a startled glance, and Draco carefully kept his face
neutral. Oops.

“That’s right!” said Harry. “I’m betraying you! Both of you! Again! Ha
ha!”

Professor Quirrell was smiling thinly, though his eyes were still
half-closed. “And why is that, Mr Potter?”

“Because I think I can cope with the chaos better than Miss Granger or
Mr Malfoy,” said the traitor. “Our war is a zero-sum game, and it
doesn’t matter whether it’s easy or hard in an absolute sense, only who
does better or worse.”

Harry Potter was learning far too fast.

Professor Quirrell’s eyes moved beneath their lids to regard Draco, and
then Granger. “In truth, Mr Malfoy, Miss Granger, I simply could not
live with myself if I shut down the grand debacle before its climax. One
of your soldiers has even become a quadruple agent.”

“Quadruple?” said Granger. “But there’s only three sides in the war!”

“Yes,” said Professor Quirrell, “you’d think that, wouldn’t you. I am
not sure that there has ever in history been a quadruple agent, or any
army with such a high fraction of real and pretended traitors. We are
exploring new realms, Miss Granger, and we cannot turn back now.”

Draco left the Defence Professor’s office with his teeth gritting hard
against each other, and Granger looking even more annoyed beside him.

“I can’t believe you did that, Harry!” said Granger.

“Sorry,” Harry said, not sounding sorry at all, his lips curved up in a
merry smile of evil. “Remember, Hermione, it is just a game, and why
should generals like us be the only ones who get to plot? And besides,
what are the two of you going to do about it? Team up against me?”

Draco traded glances with Granger, knowing that his own face was as
tight as hers. Harry had been relying, more and more openly and
gloatingly, on Draco’s refusal to make common cause with a mudblood
girl; and Draco was beginning to get sick of having that used against
him. If this kept up much longer he was going to ally with Granger just
to crush Harry Potter, and see how much the son of a mudblood liked
that.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The terrifying part was how fast the whole thing had spiralled out of
control.

Hermione stared at the parchment Zabini had given her, feeling utterly
and completely helpless.

There were names, and lines connecting the names to other names, and
some of the lines were in different colours and…

“Tell me,” said General Granger, “is there anyone in my army who isn’t a
spy?”

The two of them weren’t in the office but in another, deserted
classroom, and they were alone; because, Colonel Zabini had said, it was
now nearly certain that at least one of the captains was a traitor.
Probably Captain Goldstein, but Zabini didn’t know for sure.

Her question had put an ironic smile on the young Slytherin’s face.
Blaise Zabini always seemed a little disdainful of her, but he didn’t
seem to actively dislike her; nothing like the derision he held for
Draco Malfoy, or the resentment he had developed for Harry Potter. She
had worried at first about Zabini betraying her, but the boy seemed
desperate to show that the other two generals were no better than him;
and Hermione thought that while Zabini would probably be happy to sell
her out to anyone else, he’d never let Malfoy or Harry win.

“Most of your soldiers are still loyal to you, I’m pretty sure,” said
Zabini. “It’s just that no-one wants to be left out of the fun.” The
scornful look on the Slytherin’s face made it clear what he thought of
people who didn’t take plotting seriously. “So they think they can be
double agents and secretly work for our side while pretending to betray
us.”

“And that would also go for anyone in the other armies who says they
want to be our spy,” Hermione said carefully.

The young Slytherin shrugged. “I think I did a good job of telling which
ones really want to sell out Malfoy, I’m not sure anyone really wants to
sell out Potter to you. But Nott is a sure bet for betraying Potter to
Malfoy and since I had Entwhistle approach him supposedly on behalf of
Malfoy and Entwhistle really reports to us, that’s almost as good—”

Hermione closed her eyes for a moment. “We’re going to lose, aren’t we?”

“Look,” Zabini said patiently, “You’re in the lead right now on Quirrell
points. We just have to not lose this last battle completely and you’ll
have enough Quirrell points to win the Christmas wish.”

Professor Quirrell had announced that the final battle would operate on
a formal scoring system, which he’d been asked to do to avoid
recriminations afterwards. Each time you shot someone, the general of
your army got two Quirrell points. A gong would ring through the battle
area (they didn’t know yet where they would be fighting, though Hermione
was hoping for the forest again, where Sunshine did well) and its pitch
would tell which army had won the points. And if anyone was faking being
hit, the gong would ring out anyway, and then a double gong would ring
later, after no fixed time, to hail the retraction. And if you called
the name of an army, cried “For Sunshine!” or “For Chaos!” or “For
Dragon!”, it switched your allegiance to that army…

Even Hermione had been able to see the flaw in that set of rules. But
Professor Quirrell had gone on to announce that if you’d been originally
assigned to Sunshine, nobody could shoot you in the name of Sunshine—or
rather, they could, but then Sunshine lost a single Quirrell point,
symbolized by a triple gong. That prevented you from shooting your own
soldiers for points, and discouraged suicide before the enemy got you,
but you could still shoot spies if you had to.

Right now, Hermione had two hundred and forty-four Quirrell points, and
Malfoy had two hundred and nineteen, and Harry had two hundred and
twenty-one; and there were twenty-four soldiers in each army.

“So we fight carefully,” Hermione said, “and just try not to lose too
badly.”

“No,” said Zabini. The young Slytherin’s face was now serious. “The
problem is, Malfoy and Potter both know that their only way to win is to
combine and crush us, then fight it out on their own. So here’s what I
think we should do—”

Hermione left the classroom in something of a daze. Zabini’s plan hadn’t
been the obvious one, it had been strange and complicated and layered
and the sort of thing she would’ve expected Harry to come up with, not
Zabini. It felt wrong just for her to be able to understand a plan like
that. Young girls shouldn’t be able to understand plans like that. The
Hat would’ve Sorted her into Slytherin, if it’d seen that she could
understand plans like that…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The awesome thing was how fast he’d been able to escalate the chaos once
he started doing it deliberately.

Harry sat in his office; he’d been given the authority to order
furniture from the house elves, so he’d ordered a throne, and curtains
in a black and crimson pattern. Scarlet light like blood, mixed with
shadow, poured over the floor.

Something in Harry felt like he’d finally come home.

Before him stood the four Lieutenants of Chaos, his most trusted
minions, one of whom was a traitor.

This. This was what life should be like.

“We are gathered,” said Harry.

“Let Chaos reign,” chorused his four Lieutenants.

“My hovercraft is full of eels,” said Harry.

“I will not buy this record, it is scratched,” chorused his four
Lieutenants.

“All mimsy were the borogroves.”

“And the mome raths outgrabe!”

That concluded the formalities.

“How goes the confusion?” Harry said in a dry whisper like Emperor
Palpatine.

“It goes well, General Chaos,” said Neville in the tone he always used
for military matters, a tone so deep that the boy often had to stop and
cough. The Chaotic Lieutenant was neatly dressed in his black school
robes, trimmed in the yellow of Hufflepuff House, and his hair was
parted and combed in the usual look for an earnest young boy. Harry had
liked the incongruity better than any of the cloaks they’d tried. “Our
Legionnaires have begun five new plots since yesterday evening.”

Harry smiled evilly. “Do any of them have a chance of working?”

“I don’t think so,” said Neville of Chaos. “Here’s the report.”

“Excellent,” said Harry, and laughed chillingly as he took the parchment
from Neville’s hand, trying his best to make it sound like he was
choking on dust. That brought the total to sixty.

Let Draco try to handle that. Let him try.

And as for Blaise Zabini…

Harry laughed again, and this time it didn’t even take an effort to
sound evil. He really needed to borrow someone’s pet Kneazle for his
staff meetings, so he’d have a cat to stroke while he did this.

“Can the Legion stop making plots now?” said Finnigan of Chaos. “I mean,
don’t we have enough already—”

“No,” Harry said flatly. “We can never have enough plots.”

Professor Quirrell had put it perfectly. They were pushing the
boundaries further, perhaps, than they had ever been pushed; and Harry
wouldn’t have been able to live with himself if he’d turned back now.

There came a knock at the door.

“That will be the Dragon General,” Harry said, smiling with evil
prescience. “He arrives precisely as I expected. Do show him in, and
yourselves out.”

And the four Lieutenants of Chaos shuffled out, casting dark looks at
Draco as the enemy general entered into Harry’s secret lair.

If he wasn’t allowed to do this when he was older, Harry was just going
to stay eleven forever.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sun was dripping through the red curtains, sending rays of blood
dancing across the floor from behind Harry Potter’s grown-up–sized
cushioned chair, which he had covered in gold and silver glitter and
insisted on referring to as his throne.

(Draco was beginning to feel a lot more confident that he’d done the
right thing in deciding to overthrow Harry Potter before he could take
over the world. Draco couldn’t even imagine what it would be like to
live under his rule.)

“Good evening, Dragon General,” said Harry Potter in a chill whisper.
“You have arrived just as I expected.”

This was not surprising, considering that Draco and Harry had agreed on
the meeting time in advance.

And it also wasn’t evening, but by now Draco knew better than to say
anything.

“General Potter,” Draco said with as much dignity as he could manage,
“you know that our two armies have to work together for either of us to
win Professor Quirrell’s wish, right?”

“Yesss,” hissed Harry, like the boy thought he was a Parselmouth. “We
must cooperate to destroy Sunshine, and only then fight it out between
us. But if one of us betrays the other earlier on, that one could gain
an advantage in the later fight. And the Sunshine General, who knows all
this, will try to trick each of us into thinking the other has betrayed
them. And you and I, who know that, will be tempted to betray the other
and pretend that it is Granger’s trickery. And Granger knows that, as
well.”

Draco nodded. That much was obvious. “And… both of us only want to win,
and there’s no-one else who’ll punish either of us if we defect…”

“Precisely,” said Harry Potter, his face now turning serious. “We are
faced with a true Prisoner’s Dilemma.”

The Prisoner’s Dilemma, according to Harry’s teachings, ran thus. Two
prisoners had been locked in separate cells. There was evidence against
each prisoner, but only minor evidence, enough for a prison sentence of
two years apiece. Each prisoner could opt to defect, betray the other,
testify against them in court; and this would take one year off their
own prison sentence, but add two years to the other’s. Or a prisoner
could cooperate, staying silent. So if both prisoners defected, each
testifying against the other, they would serve three years apiece; if
both cooperated, or stayed silent, they would serve two years each; but
if one defected and the other cooperated, the defector would serve a
single year, and the cooperator would serve four.

And both prisoners had to make their decision without knowing the other
one’s choice, and neither would be given a chance to change their
decision afterwards.

Draco had observed that if the two prisoners had been Death Eaters
during the Wizarding War, the Dark Lord would have killed any traitors.

Harry had nodded and said that was one way to resolve the Prisoner’s
Dilemma—and in fact both Death Eaters would want there to be a Dark Lord
for exactly that reason.

(Draco had asked Harry to stop and let him to think about this for a
while before they continued. It had explained a lot about why Father and
his friends had agreed to serve under a Dark Lord who often wasn’t nice
to them…)

In fact, Harry had said, this was pretty much the reason why people had
governments—you might be better off if you stole from someone else, just
like each prisoner would be individually better off if they defected in
the Prisoner’s Dilemma. But if everyone thought like that, the country
would fall into chaos and everyone would be worse off, like what would
happen if both prisoners defected. So people let themselves be ruled by
governments, just like the Death Eaters had let themselves be ruled by
the Dark Lord.

(Draco had asked Harry to stop again. Draco had always taken for granted
that ambitious wizards put themselves in power because they wanted to
rule, and people let themselves be ruled because they were scared little
Hufflepuffs. And this, on reflection, still seemed true; but Harry’s
perspective was fascinating even if it was wrong.)

But, Harry had continued afterwards, the fear of a third party punishing
you was not the only possible reason to cooperate in the Prisoner’s
Dilemma.

Suppose, Harry had said, you were playing the game against a magically
produced identical copy of yourself.

Draco had said that if there were two Dracos, of course neither Draco
would want anything bad to happen to the other one, not to mention that
no Malfoy would let himself become known as a traitor.

Harry had nodded again, and said that this was yet another solution to
the Prisoner’s Dilemma—people might cooperate because they cared about
each other, or because they had senses of honour, or because they wanted
to preserve their reputation. Indeed, Harry had said, it was rather
difficult to construct a true Prisoner’s Dilemma—in real life, people
usually cared about the other person, or their honour or their
reputation or a Dark Lord’s punishment or something besides the prison
sentences. But suppose the copy had been of someone completely selfish—

(Pansy Parkinson had been the example they’d used)

—so each Pansy only cared what happened to her and not to the other
Pansy.

Given that this was all Pansy cared about… and that there was no Dark
Lord… and Pansy wasn’t worried about her reputation… and Pansy either
had no sense of honour or didn’t consider herself obliged to the other
prisoner… then would the rational thing be for Pansy to cooperate, or
defect?

Some people, Harry said, claimed that the rational thing to do was for
Pansy to defect against her copy, but Harry, plus someone named Douglas
Hofstadter, thought these people were wrong. Because, Harry had said, if
Pansy defected—not at random, but for what seemed to her like rational
reasons—then the other Pansy would think exactly the same way. Two
identical copies wouldn’t decide different things. So Pansy had to
choose between a world in which both Pansies cooperated, or a world in
which both Pansies defected, and she was better off if both copies
cooperated. And if Harry had thought ‘rational’ people did defect in the
Prisoner’s Dilemma, then he wouldn’t have done anything to spread that
kind of ‘rationality’, because a country or a conspiracy full of
‘rational’ people would dissolve into chaos. You would tell your enemies
about ‘rationality’.

Which had all sounded reasonable at the time, but now the thought was
occurring to Draco that…

“You said,” Draco said, “that the rational solution to the Prisoner’s
Dilemma is to cooperate. But of course you would want me to believe
that, wouldn’t you?” And if Draco was fooled into cooperating, Harry
would just say, Ha ha, betrayed you again! and laugh at him about it
afterwards.

“I wouldn’t fake your lessons,” Harry said seriously. “But I have to
remind you, Draco, that I didn’t say you should just automatically
cooperate. Not on a true Prisoner’s Dilemma like this one. What I said
was that when you choose, you shouldn’t think like you’re choosing for
just yourself, or like you’re choosing for everyone. You should think
like you’re choosing for all the people who are similar enough to you
that they’ll probably do the same thing you do for the same reasons. And
also choosing the predictions made by anyone who knows you well enough
to predict you accurately, so that you never have to regret being
rational because of the correct predictions that other people make about
you—remind me to explain about Newcomb’s Problem at some point. So the
question you and I have to ask, Draco, is this: are we similar enough
that we’ll probably do the same thing whatever it is, making our
decisions in mostly the same way? Or do we know each other well enough
to predict each other, so that I can predict whether you’ll cooperate or
defect, and you can predict that I’ve decided to do the same thing I
predict you’ll do, because I know that you can predict me deciding
that?”

…and Draco could not help but think that since he had to strain just to
understand half of that, the answer was obviously ‘No’.

“Yes,” said Draco.

There was a pause.

“I see,” said Harry, sounding disappointed. “Oh, well. I guess we’ll
have to think of some other way, then.”

Draco hadn’t thought that was going to work.

Draco and Harry talked about it back and forth. They had both agreed
much earlier that what they did on the battlefield would not count as
broken promises in real life—though Draco was a little angry about what
Harry had done in Professor Quirrell’s office, and said so.

But if the two of them couldn’t rely on honour or friendship, that did
leave the question of how to get their armies to work together on
beating Sunshine, despite everything Granger might try to break them up.
Professor Quirrell’s rules didn’t make it tempting to let Sunshine kill
the other army’s soldiers—that just increased the bar you had to pass
yourself—but it did tempt each side to steal kills instead of acting
like a single army would, or to shoot some of the other side’s soldiers
during the confusion of battle…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione was walking back to Ravenclaw not really looking where she was
going, her mind preoccupied with war and treachery and other
age-inappropriate concepts, and she turned a corner and bumped straight
into a grown-up.

“Sorry,” she said automatically, and then, entirely without thinking,
“Eeeeek!”

“Don’t worry, Miss Granger,” said the cheerful smile, set beneath the
twinkling eyes, and above the silver beard, of the Headmaster of
Hogwarts. “You are quite forgiven.”

Her gaze was helplessly locked on the kindly face of the most powerful
wizard in the world, who was also the Chief Warlock, who was also the
Supreme Mugwump, who had gone insane years ago from the stress of
fighting the Dark Lord, and numerous other facts that were popping up
into her mind one after the other while her throat went on making little
embarrassing squeaks.

“In fact, Miss Granger,” said Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore,
“it is quite lucky that we bumped into each other. Why, I was just now
wondering curiously what the three of you were thinking of asking for
your wishes…”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Saturday dawned bright and clear and with the students speaking in
hushed voices, as though the first to shout might set off the explosion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco had hoped that they would be fighting in the upper levels of
Hogwarts again. Professor Quirrell had said that real fights were more
likely to take place in cities than forests, and fighting inside
schoolrooms and corridors was supposed to simulate that, with ribbons to
mark the allowed areas. Dragon Army had done well in those fights.

Instead, just as Draco had feared, Professor Quirrell had come up with
something special for this battle.

The battleground was the Hogwarts Lake.

And not in boats, either.

They were fighting underwater.

The Giant Squid had been temporarily paralysed; spells had been set in
place to keep away the grindylows; Professor Quirrell had gone and
talked to the merfolk; and all the soldiers had been issued potions of
underwater action that allowed them to breathe, see clearly, talk to
each other, and swim not quite as fast as a fast walk by kicking their
legs.

A huge silver sphere hung in the centre of the battleground, shining
like a small underwater moon. It would help to provide a sense of
direction—at first. The moon would slowly go into eclipse as the battle
went on, and when it had gone entirely dark, the battle would end if it
hadn’t already.

War in water. You couldn’t defend a perimeter, attackers could come at
you from any direction, and even with the potion you couldn’t see very
far in the darkness of the lake.

And if you swam too far away from the action, you would start to glow
after a while, and be easy to hunt down—ordinarily if an army scattered
and ran instead of fighting, Professor Quirrell would just declare them
defeated; but today they were working on a points system. Of course you
still had some time before you started to glow, if you wanted to play
assassin.

Dragon Army had been set low in the water at the start of the game;
above and far away, the distant underwater moon shone. The murky water
was mostly lit by Lumos Charms, though his soldiers would extinguish the
lights as soon as they began manœuvres. There was no point in letting
the enemy see you before you saw them.

Draco kicked his legs a few times, propelling him to a higher position
from which he could gaze down at where his soldiers hovered in the
water.

The conversations died down almost at once under Draco’s icy glare, his
soldiers looking up at him with gratifying expressions of fear and
worry.

“Listen to me very carefully,” said General Malfoy. His voice came out a
little lower, a little burbly with bubbles, libsten to me vebwy
carebfully, but the sound travelled clearly. “There’s only one way we
can win this. We’ve got to march on Sunshine together with Chaos, and
beat Sunshine. Then we fight it out with Potter and win. That’s got to
happen, understand? No matter what else goes on, that part has to happen
that way—”

And Draco explained the plan he and Harry had come up with.

Astonished looks were exchanged among the soldiers.

“—and if any of your plots get in the way of that,” finished Draco,
“after we are out of the water, I will set you on fire.”

There was a nervous chorus of yessirs.

“And everyone with secret orders, make sure you carry them out to the
letter,” said Draco.

Around half his soldiers openly nodded, and Draco marked them for death
after he rose to power.

Of course all the private orders were fake, like one Dragon being told
to offer a false traitor’s commission to another Dragon, and the second
Dragon being told in hushed confidence to report anything said by the
first Dragon. Draco had told each Dragon that the whole war could depend
on that one thing, and that he hoped they understood it was more
important than the plans they’d previously made. With luck that would
keep all the idiots happy, and maybe flush out a few spies to boot, if
the reports didn’t match the instructions.

Draco’s real plan for winning against Chaos… well, it was simpler than
the one he’d burned, but Father still wouldn’t have liked it. Despite
trying, though, Draco hadn’t been able to think of anything better. It
was a plot that couldn’t possibly have worked against anyone except
Harry Potter. In fact it had been Harry’s plan originally, according to
the traitor, though Draco had guessed that without being told. Draco and
the traitor had just modified it a little…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry took a deep breath, feeling the water gurgle harmlessly in his
lungs.

They’d fought in the forest, and he hadn’t had a chance to say it.

They’d fought in the corridors of Hogwarts, and he hadn’t had a chance
to say it.

They’d fought in the air, broomsticks issued to every soldier, and it
still hadn’t made sense to say it.

Harry had thought he wouldn’t ever get to say those words, not while he
was still young enough for them to be real…

The Chaos Legionnaires were looking at Harry in puzzlement, as their
general swam with his feet pointing up toward the distant light of the
surface, and his head pointed down toward the murky depths.

“Why are you upside-down?” the young commander shouted at his army, and
began to explain how to fight after you abandoned the privileged
orientation of gravity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A hollow, booming bell echoed through the water, and on the instant,
Zabini and Anthony and five other soldiers struck out downward, into the
murky depths of the lake. Parvati Patil, the only Gryffindor in the
group, turned her head back for a moment and gave them all a cheery wave
as she dived; and after a moment, Scott and Matt did the same. The rest
just sank and vanished.

General Granger swallowed a lump in her throat as she watched them go.
She was risking everything on this, dividing her army instead of just
trying to take as many enemy soldiers with them as possible.

The thing to realize, Zabini had told her, was that no army would move
until they had a plan that let them expect victory. Sunshine couldn’t
just plan to win themselves, they had to make both other armies think
they would win until it was too late.

Ernie and Ron still looked like they were in shock. Susan was gazing
after the disappearing soldiers with a calculating look. Her army, what
was left of it, just looked bewildered, traceries of light dappling on
their uniforms as they all drifted just below the sunlit surface of the
lake.

“Now what?” said Ron.

“Now we wait,” said Hermione, loudly enough for all the soldiers to
hear. It felt odd to talk with her mouth full of water, she kept feeling
like she was committing some sort of horrible impoliteness at the dinner
table and was about to drool all over herself. “All of us left here are
going to get zapped, but that was going to happen anyway with Dragon and
Chaos ganging up on us. We’ve just got to take as many of them with us
as we can.”

“I’ve got a plan,” said one of her Sunshine Soldiers… Hannah, her voice
had been a little hard to recognize at first. “It’s like all
complicated, but I know how we can get Dragon and Chaos to start
fighting each other—”

“Me too!” said Fay. “I’ve got a plan too! See, Neville Longbottom is
secretly on our side—”

“You were talking to Neville?” said Ernie. “That’s not right, I was the
one who—”

Daphne Greengrass and a couple of other Slytherins who hadn’t gone with
Zabini were giggling helplessly as the cries of “No, wait, I was the one
who got Longbottom” erupted from one soldier after another.

Hermione just looked at them all wearily.

“Okay,” said Hermione when it had all died down, “does everyone get it?
All your plots were faked by the Chaos Legion, or maybe some by Dragon.
Anyone who really wanted to betray Harry or Malfoy went straight to me
or Zabini, not you. Just go ahead and compare notes on all your secret
plots and you’ll see it for yourselves.” She might not be as good at
plotting as Zabini, but she could always understand what all her
officers told her, that was why Professor Quirrell had made her the
general. “So don’t bother trying to do any plots when the other armies
get here. Just fight, okay? Please?”

“But,” said Ernie with shock on his face, “Neville is in Hufflepuff!
You’re saying he lied to us?”

Daphne was laughing so hard and so helplessly that the exhalations had
turned her upside-down in the water.

“I’m not sure what Longbottom is,” said Ron darkly, “but I don’t think
he’s a Hufflepuff any more. Not now that Harry Potter’s got to him.”

“Do you know,” said Susan, “I asked him that, and Neville told me he had
become a Chaos Hufflepuff?”

“Anyway,” said Hermione in a loud voice. “Zabini took everyone who we
thought was a spy with him, so in our army we can stop watching each
other quite so hard now, I hope.”

“Anthony was a spy?” yelled Ron.

“Parvati was a spy?” gasped Hannah.

“Parvati was totally a spy,” said Daphne. “She shopped at the spy shoe
store and wore spy lipstick, and some day she’s going to marry a nice
spy husband and have a lot of little spies.”

And then a gong sound echoed through the water, indicating that Sunshine
had just scored two points.

This was shortly followed by the triple gong of Dragon losing a single
point.

Traitors weren’t allowed to kill generals, not after the disaster of the
first battle in December when all three generals had been shot in the
first minute. But with any luck…

“Aw,” said Hermione. “It sounds like Mr Crabbe is taking a little nap.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Like two shoals of fish, the armies swam along.

Neville Longbottom kicked his feet in slow, measured motions. Diving,
always diving in whatever direction you happened to be moving. You
wanted to show the enemy the smallest profile, present them with your
head or your feet. So you were always diving, downward and head-first,
and the enemy was always down.

Like every Chaos Legionnaire in the army, Neville’s head was constantly
rotating as he swam, looking up, down, around, to every side. Not just
watching for Sunshine Soldiers, but watching for any sign that a Chaos
Legionnaire had drawn their wand and was about to betray them. Usually
traitors waited until the confusion of battle to make their move, but
that early gong had put them all on guard.

…the truth was, Neville was feeling sad about that. In November he’d
been a soldier in a united army, all of them pulling together and
helping each other, and now they were all watching each other constantly
for the first signs of betrayal. It might have been more fun for General
Chaos, but it wasn’t nearly as much fun for Neville.

The direction formerly known as ‘up’ was getting steadily brighter, as
they came closer to the surface and Sunshine.

“Wands out,” said General Chaos.

Neville’s squad drew their wands, pointing them straight ahead toward
the enemy, as their heads scanned around more rapidly. If there were
Sunny traitors, the time was approaching for them to strike.

The other shoal of fish, Dragon Army, was doing the same thing.

“Now!” shouted the distant voice of the Dragon General.

“Now!” shouted General Chaos.

“For Sunshine!” shouted all the soldiers in both armies, and charged
downward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“What?” said Minerva involuntarily as she watched the screens from next
to the lake, a cry echoed in many other places; all of Hogwarts was
watching this battle as they had watched the first.

Professor Quirrell was laughing dryly. “I warned you, Headmaster. It is
impossible to have rules without Mr Potter exploiting them.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For long precious seconds, as the forty-seven soldiers charged her own
seventeen, Hermione’s mind went blank.

Why…

Then it all snapped into place.

Every time a soldier originally from Sunshine got shot by someone crying
the name of Sunshine, she would lose a Quirrell point. When two Sunshine
Soldiers were shot by either army, both enemy armies would be two points
closer to overtaking her, it was the same gain only shared. And if
anyone shot another soldier not in the name of Sunshine, that gong
wouldn’t get lost in the confusion…

Hermione was suddenly very glad that Zabini hadn’t gone with the obvious
plan of starting trouble between the other two armies while they
attacked Sunshine.

It was still disheartening, though, that sense of your chances closing
down, of hope being taken away.

Most of Hermione’s soldiers were still looking confused, but some had
expressions of dawning horror as they got it.

“It’s all right,” Susan Bones said firmly. Heads turned to look at the
Sunshine Captain. “Our job is the same, to take as many of them with us
as we can. And remember, Zabini took away all the spies! We don’t have
to stay on the lookout like they do!” The girl was smiling defiantly,
provoking answering smiles from many of the other soldiers, even from
Hermione herself. “It can be like it was in November. We just have to
keep our heads high, fight our best, and trust each other—”

Daphne shot her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Blood for the blood god!” shrieked Neville of Chaos, though since he
was underwater it came out more like ‘Blubbled for the blubbled glub!’

Captain Weasley spun and raised his wand toward Neville and fired. But
Neville was swimming downward toward him, wand pointed straight ahead,
and that meant the Simple Shield could shelter Neville’s entire profile;
if anyone shot him now, it wasn’t going to be Sunny Ron.

A grimly determined look came over Captain Weasley’s face, and he
arrowed straight up toward Neville, mouthing the word Contego, though
the shield wasn’t visible in the water.

The two enemy champions shot toward each other like arrows released from
bows, each aimed to split the other down the middle. They had duelled
many times before, but this time would pay for all.

(Far away by the lakeside, a hundred breaths were held.)

“Rainbows and unicorns!” roared the Sunshine Captain.

“The Black Goat with a thousand young!”

“Do your homework!”

Closer and yet closer, the two champions charged, neither willing to
swerve, the first person to turn would present a vulnerable broadside
and get shot, though if neither lost their nerve they would crash right
into each other…

Falling straight down as the enemy rose straight up to meet him, hammer
descending to meet anvil in a path neither was willing to leave…

“Special attack, Chaotic Twist!”

Neville saw the look of horror on Captain Weasley’s face as the Hover
Charm caught him. They’d tested it before the battle had started; and
just as Harry had suspected, Wingardium Leviosa became a whole new sort
of weapon once everyone was swimming underwater.

“Curse you, Longbottom!” shrieked Ron Weasley, “Can’t you ever fight
without your dumb special attacks—”

And by that time the Sunshine Captain had been spun around sideways and
Neville shot him in the leg.

“I don’t fight fair,” said Neville to the sleeping form, “I fight like
Harry Potter.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 237 / Malfoy: 217 / Potter: 220

It still hurt every time he had to shoot Hermione. Harry could hardly
stand to look at the expression of peace that had come over her sleeping
face, arms now drifting aimlessly as the curves of sunlight moved over
her camouflage uniform and the cloud of her chestnut hair.

And if Harry had tried to duck out of being the one to shoot her… not
only would Draco have known what it meant, Hermione would have been
offended.

She’s not dead, Harry said to his brain as his kicking feet pushed him
away, she’s just resting. Idiot.

Are you sure? said his brain. What if she’s an ex-Hermione? Could we go
back and check?

Harry glanced back briefly.

See, she’s fine, there are bubbles coming out of her mouth.

Could’ve been her last breath escaping.

Oh be quiet. Why are you being so paranoid-protective, anyway?

Er, first real friend we’ve ever had in our whole life? Hey, remember
what happened to our pet rock?

Would you shut up about that worthless lump of rubble, it wasn’t even
alive let alone sentient, that is like the most pathetic childhood
trauma ever—

The two armies swiftly separated, becoming two shoals of fish once more.

General Granger had gone down seventeen points, and taken three Chaotics
and two Dragons with her; and one Chaotic and two Dragons had been shot
as traitors. So she’d lost net seven points, Harry had lost one, Draco
had lost two; that put Sunshine twenty points up on Dragon, and
seventeen points up on Chaos. Chaos could still win easily if they
exterminated all twenty remaining Dragons. The wild card, of course,
being those seven remaining Sunshine Soldiers…

…if you could call them that.

The two shoals swam uneasily next to each other, the soldiers in each
army awaiting an order to call out their true allegiances, and attack…

“Everyone who got them,” Harry said loudly, “remember Special Orders One
through Three. And don’t forget it’s Merlin Says on Three. Do not
acknowledge.”

The trustworthy two-thirds of the army did not nod, and the other third
just looked puzzled.

Special Order One: Don’t bother trying to call out any codewords in this
battle, don’t expend effort on any plot not specially approved by the
commander; just swim, shield, and fire.

Hermione and Draco had both been fighting their soldiers, trying to get
them to stop plotting on their own all through December. Harry had egged
his soldiers on and supported their plotting through the last two
battles… while also telling them that at some future point he might ask
them to put a plot or two on hold, to which they’d all readily agreed.
So now, in this critical battle, they were happy to obey.

Neither Hermione or Draco could have given that order successfully,
Harry was certain. It was the difference between your soldiers seeing
you as an ally in their plotting, and seeing you as a spoilsport old
fuddy-duddy who didn’t want them to have any fun. Imposition of order
equalled escalation of chaos, and it also worked in reverse…

“There they are!” shouted someone, and pointed.

From the depths of the lake arose the forgotten ones, the ones who’d
forsaken the last battle, the seven missing Sunshine Soldiers, glowing
with the bright aura of cowards, now fading as they returned to battle.

The two shoals of fish wavered, pointing wands uneasily.

“Hold your fire!” shouted Harry, and a similar cry came from General
Malfoy.

There was a moment of held breath.

Then the seven Sunshine Soldiers swam up to join Dragon Army.

There was a triumphant cheer from Dragon Army.

There were cries of dismay from a third of the Chaos Legion.

Some of the other two-thirds smiled, though they shouldn’t have.

Harry wasn’t smiling.

Oh, this is so completely not going to work…

But Harry hadn’t been able to think of anything better.

“Special Orders Two and Three still apply!” shouted Harry. “Fight!”

“For the Chaos Legion!” roared twenty Chaotic Legionnaires.

“For Dragon Army!” roared twenty Dragon Warriors and seven Sunshine
Soldiers.

And the Chaotics dived straight downward, as all the traitors got ready
to strike.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 237 / Malfoy: 220 / Potter: 226

Draco’s head darted around frantically, trying to weigh up what was
happening; somehow, despite his greater forces, he’d lost the
initiative. Four small Chaotic forces were being pursued by four larger
Dragon forces, but because Draco’s forces were the ones trying to force
an engagement, it meant that they had to follow where Chaos ran, and
somehow that was producing concentrations of Chaotic force that would
fire into the exposed sides of Dragon—

It was happening again!

“Prismatis!” shouted Draco, raising his wand, and that shield you could
see even through the water, a sparkling multicoloured flat wall wide
enough to shield Draco and the five other Dragons with him from the
Chaotic force that had just started firing on them as they swam past,
and that let the other five Dragons turn their attentions back to the
Chaotic force they’d been chasing—

There was a tense moment as sleep spell after sleep spell crashed into
Draco’s Prismatic Wall, and Draco was hoping to Merlin that none of
those four Chaotics had learned the Breaking Drill Hex—

Then there was the bell of a Dragon victory, and the Chaotic force spun
head-for-foot and began swimming away; and Draco, his hands now shaking
slightly, dropped the Prismatic Wall and lowered his wand.

Fighting in water was more exhausting even than fighting on broomsticks.

“Do not pursue!” Draco cried to his soldiers as they started to follow,
then, “Sonorus! REFORM ON ME!”

The Dragon forces started converging on Draco, and the Chaotic forces
spun around and began pursuing the Dragons on the instant—Draco swore
out loud as he heard the bell of a Chaotic victory, someone hadn’t
oriented their Simple Shield right—and then the Dragon forces were in
supporting range of each other and the Chaotics were moving back into
the murky distance.

Somehow, despite their numerical superiority, the Dragons had scored
three times against the Chaotics and the Chaotics had scored four times
back, and he’d heard one Dragon spy get executed. Either Harry Potter
had thought of a lot of very good ideas very fast, or for some
unimaginable reason he’d already spent a lot of time working out how to
fight underwater. This wasn’t working, and Draco needed to rethink
things.

It looked like everyone was having trouble aiming while swimming, too,
the battle might last long enough that time would be called… the distant
underwater moon was only half-full now, that wasn’t good… he had to
rethink things fast…

“What is it?” said Padma Patil, as she and her force swam over toward
Draco.

Padma was his second-in-command; she was clever and powerful, and better
yet, she hated Granger and saw Harry as a rival, which made her
trustworthy. Working with Padma was making him realize the truth of the
old adage that Ravenclaw was sister to Slytherin; Draco had been
surprised when his father had told him it was an acceptable House for
his future wife, but now he saw the sense of it.

“Wait until we’re all here,” Draco said. The truth was, he needed to
catch his breath. That was the trouble with being the general and the
most powerful wizard, you had to keep using magic.

Zabini came in next, commanding a force of two Sunnies and four Dragons,
one of whom was Gregory keeping an eye on Zabini. Draco didn’t trust
Zabini. And neither Draco nor Zabini trusted the Sunnies enough to make
them a majority of any unit; they were supposed to be loyal either to
Draco directly, or to Granger who’d been fooled by the promise that the
Dragons would be betrayed in the end after both forces had been
depleted, just as Harry’s more trusted Chaotics should’ve been fooled
into not shooting at the Sunnies by the promise of their firing fake
Sleep Hexes and switching to support Chaos later; but it was possible
some of the Sunnies were loyal to Chaos and weren’t firing real Sleep
Hexes and that was why Dragon wasn’t winning the way their numerical
advantage should’ve let them win…

The next unit that approached was depleted, three soldiers holding wands
on two other soldiers, who were swimming with empty hands.

Draco gritted his teeth. More traitor problems. He needed to talk to
Professor Quirrell about having some way to punish traitors at least,
conditions like these were unrealistic, in real life you tortured your
traitors to death.

“General Malfoy!” shouted the commander of the problem unit as it swam
up, a Ravenclaw boy named Terry. “We don’t know what to do—Cesi shot
Bogdan, but Cesi says Kellah told him that Bogdan shot Specter—”

“I didn’t!” said Kellah.

“Yes you did!” shrieked Cesi. “General Malfoy, she’s the spy, I
should’ve rea—”

“Somnium,” said Draco.

There was the triple bell of a one-point loss from Dragon, and then
Kellah’s limp body began to float away in the water.

Draco had heard the word ‘recursion’ by this point, and he knew a Harry
Potter plot when he saw one.

(Unfortunately Draco had not heard of autoimmune disorders, and the
thought did not readily occur to him that a clever virus would begin its
attack by creating symptoms of an autoimmune disorder so as to get the
body to distrust its own immune system…)

“General order!” said Draco, raising his voice. “Nobody gets to shoot
spies except myself, Gregory, Padma, and Terry. If anyone sees anything
suspicious they come to one of us.”

And then—

There was the bell of Sunshine scoring two points.

“What?” said Draco and Zabini around the same time; their heads
swivelled around. No-one seemed to have been hit, and all the Sunshine
soldiers were present and accounted for. (Except Parvati, who had been
shot by some still-unknown traitor in Padma’s squad; and of course Padma
had shot Parvati again in case she was faking, so it wasn’t her…)

“A Sunny traitor in Chaos?” said Zabini, sounding puzzled. “But all the
ones I knew about were supposed to strike during Chaos’s attack on
Sunshine—”

“No!” said Padma in a tone of sudden realization. “That was Chaos
executing a spy!”

“What?” said Zabini. “But why—”

And Draco got it. Damn it! “Because Potter thinks he’s safe for how much
he beats Sunshine, but not for how much he beats us! So he doesn’t want
to lose a single point when he executes a traitor! General order! If you
have to execute a traitor, call Sunshine first! And don’t forget to
switch back to Dragon afterwards—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 253 / Malfoy: 252 / Potter: 252

Longbottom’s body drifted chaotically through the water, arms and legs
disarrayed. After Draco had finally got a hit in they’d all shot him
again just to be sure.

Nearby was Harry Potter, now protected by a Prismatic Sphere, looking at
them all grimly as the last sliver of crescent moon slowly diminished,
somewhere far away. If Longbottom had managed to shoot one more soldier
(Draco knew Harry was thinking), if the two Chaotics had managed to hold
out just a little longer, they might have won…

After Draco had reformed his forces and struck out again, the ensuing
battle and execution of spies in Sunshine’s name had left Sunshine
exactly one point ahead of Dragon and Chaos both. Once Harry had started
doing it, Draco had been left with no choice but to follow suit.

But now they had General Chaos outnumbered three to one, the survivors
of Dragon Army and the last remaining Sunny traitor: Draco, and Padma,
and Zabini.

And Draco, who was no fool, had ordered Padma to take Zabini’s wand
after Longbottom had shot Gregory and fallen in turn to Draco. The boy
had given him an insulted look, told Draco that he owed him for this,
and handed it over.

That left Draco and Padma to take down General Chaos.

“I don’t suppose you’d like to surrender?” said Draco, smiling as evilly
as any smile he’d ever directed at Harry Potter.

“Sleep before surrender!” shouted General Chaos.

“Just so you know,” said Draco, “Zabini doesn’t actually have an older
sister for you to rescue from Gryffindor bullies. But Zabini does have a
mother who doesn’t approve of Muggle-borns like Granger, and I wrote her
a few notes, and offered Zabini a few favours—nothing involving my
father, just things I can do in school. And by the way, Zabini’s mother
doesn’t approve of the Boy-Who-Lived, either. Just in case you still
thought Zabini was really on your side.”

Harry’s face grew even grimmer.

Draco raised his wand, and began breathing rhythmically, building up
strength for a Breaking Drill Hex. Granger’s Prismatic Sphere was almost
as strong as Draco’s now, and Harry’s wasn’t much weaker, where did
those two find time?

“Lagann!” spoke Draco, putting everything he had into it, and the green
spiral blazed out and Harry’s shield shattered, and at almost the same
moment—

“Somnium!” said Padma.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 253 / Malfoy: 252 / Potter: 254

Harry let out a long breath of relief, and not just because he didn’t
have to hold the Prismatic Sphere any more. His hand was shaking as he
lowered his wand.

“You know,” said Harry, “I was pretty worried there for a moment.”

Special Order Two: If a Sunny traitor doesn’t seem to be really shooting
at you, fake being hit occasionally. Prefer targeting Dragons to Sunnies
but go ahead and shoot Sunnies if you can’t shoot Dragons.

Special Order Three: Merlin says do not shoot at Blaise Zabini or either
Patil twin.

With a wide grin, Parvati Patil stripped the Transfigured patch off her
uniform’s insignia, and let it float away in the water.

“Gryffindors for Chaos,” she said, and handed Zabini his wand back.

“Thank you very much,” Harry said, and bowed sweepingly to the
Gryffindor girl. “And thank you as well,” bowing to Zabini. “You know,
when you came to me with that plan, I wondered if you were brilliant or
crazy, and I’ve decided that you’re both. And by the way,” Harry said,
now turning as though to address Draco’s body, “Zabini does have a
cousin—”

“Somnium,” said Zabini’s voice.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 255 / Malfoy: 252 / Potter: 254

And Harry Potter’s body floated away, his expression of shock and horror
quickly relaxing into sleep.

“On second thought,” Parvati said cheerfully, “make that Gryffindors for
Sunshine.”

She started to laugh, more exhilarated than she’d ever been in her life,
she’d finally got to assassinate and replace her twin sister and she’d
wanted to do that since forever, and this had been perfect, it had all
been perfect—

—and then her wand spun around in a lightning motion just as Zabini’s
wand turned to point at her.

“Wait!” said Zabini. “Do not shoot, do not resist. That’s an order.”

“What?” said Parvati.

“Sorry,” said Zabini, looking not-quite-sincerely apologetic, “but I
can’t be totally sure you’re for Sunshine. So I order you to let me
shoot you.”

“Hold on!” said Parvati. “We’re only ahead of Chaos by one point! If you
shoot me now—”

“I’ll shoot you in the name of Dragon, obviously,” said Zabini, now
sounding a little superior. “Just because we tricked them into doing it,
doesn’t mean it won’t work for us.”

Parvati stared at him, her eyes narrowing. “General Malfoy said your
mother doesn’t like Hermione.”

“I suppose,” said Zabini, still with that superior smirk. “But some of
us are more willing than Draco Malfoy to annoy a parent.”

“And Harry Potter said you have a cousin—”

“Nope,” said Zabini.

Parvati stared at him, trying to think, but she wasn’t really good at
plotting; Zabini’d said the plan was to secretly keep the scores of
Chaos and Dragon as even as possible so they’d use Sunshine’s name to
execute their traitors instead of losing even a single point, and that
had worked… but… she had the feeling she was missing something, she
wasn’t a Slytherin…

“Why don’t I shoot you in the name of Dragon?” said Parvati.

“Because I outrank you,” said Zabini.

Parvati had a bad feeling about this.

She stared at him for a long moment.

And then—

“Somni—” she started to say, and then realized she hadn’t said for
Dragon, and frantically cut herself off—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Granger: 255 / Malfoy: 254 / Potter: 254

“Hey, everyone,” said Blaise Zabini’s face on the screens, looking quite
amused, “guess it’s all down to me.”

All by the lakeside, people were holding their breath.

Sunshine was ahead of Dragon and Chaos by exactly one point.

Blaise Zabini could shoot himself in the name of either Dragon or Chaos,
or just leave things the way they were.

A series of chimes indicated that the last minute of time was running
out.

And the Slytherin was smiling a strange, twisted smile, and casually
toying with his wand, the dark wood barely visible in the dark water.

“You know,” said Blaise Zabini’s voice, in the tones of someone who’d
been rehearsing the words for a while, “it’s just a game, really. And
games are supposed to be fun. So how about if I just do whatever I feel
like?”

34. Coordination Problems, Part II

MINERVA and Dumbledore together had applied their combined talent to
conjure the grand stage toward which Quirrell now slowly trudged; it
was, at its core, sturdy wood, but the outer surfaces shone with glitter
of marble inlaid with platinum and studded with gems of every House
colour. Neither she nor the Headmaster was any Founder of Hogwarts, but
the conjuration only needed to last a few hours. Minerva ordinarily
enjoyed the few occasions when she had the occasion to tire herself out
on large Transfigurations; she should have enjoyed the many small
chances for artistry, and the illusion of opulence; but this time she
had done the work with the dreadful feeling of digging her own grave.

But Minerva was feeling a little better now. There’d been one brief
moment when the explosion might’ve come; but Dumbledore had already been
standing up and applauding warmly, and no-one had proven foolish enough
to riot in front of the Headmaster.

And the explosive mood had rapidly faded into a collective sentiment
which might perhaps have been described by the phrase: Give us a break!

Blaise Zabini had shot himself in the name of Sunshine, and the final
score had been 254 to 254 to 254.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Behind the stage, waiting to ascend, three children were glaring at each
other in mingled fury and frustration. It didn’t help that they were
still damp from being fished out of the lake, and that the Warming
Charms didn’t seem quite enough to make up for the crisp December air,
or maybe it was just their mood.

“That’s it,” said Granger. “I’ve had it! No more traitors!”

“I completely agree with you, Miss Granger,” Draco said icily. “Enough
is enough.”

“And what do you two intend to do about it?” snapped Harry Potter.
“Professor Quirrell already said he wouldn’t ban spies!”

“We’ll ban them for him,” said Draco grimly. He hadn’t even understood
what he meant by the words as he said them, but the very act of speaking
seemed to crystallize a plan—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The stage really was well done, at least for a temporary structure; the
makers hadn’t fallen into the usual pitfall of being impressed by their
own illusion of wealth, and knew something about architecture and visual
style. From where Draco stood, in the obvious place for him to stand,
the watching students would see him haloed in the faint glitter of
emeralds; and Granger, standing where Draco had subtly motioned her,
would be haloed in Ravenclaw’s sapphire. As for Harry Potter, Draco
wasn’t looking at him right now.

Professor Quirrell had… awakened, or whatever it was he did; and was
leaning upon a platinum podium bare of all gems. With evident
showmanship, the Defence Professor was carefully stacking and squaring
those three envelopes containing the three parchments upon which the
three generals had written their wishes, as all the students of Hogwarts
watched, and waited.

Finally Professor Quirrell looked up from the envelopes. “Well,” said
the Defence Professor. “This is inconvenient.”

A slight titter of laughter ran through the crowd, with a sharp
undertone.

“I suppose you are all wondering what I will do?” said Professor
Quirrell. “There is nothing for it; I shall have to do what is fair.
Although first there was a little speech I wanted to make, and before
even that, it appears to me that Mr Malfoy and Miss Granger have
something they wish to share.”

Draco blinked, and then he and Granger traded rapid glances—may I?—yes,
go ahead— and Draco raised his voice.

“General Granger and I would both like to say,” Draco said in his most
formal voice, knowing it was being amplified and heard, “that we will no
longer accept the help of any traitors. And if, in any battle, we find
that Potter has accepted traitors from either of our armies, we will
join forces to crush him.”

And Draco shot a glance filled at malice at the Boy-Who-Lived. Take
that, General Chaos!

“I agree completely with General Malfoy,” said Granger standing beside
him, her high voice clear and strong. “Neither of us will use traitors,
and if General Potter does, we will wipe him off the battlefield.”

There was a susurration of surprise from the watching students.

“Very good,” said their Defence Professor, smiling. “It took the two of
you long enough, but you are still to be congratulated on having thought
of it before any other generals.”

It took a moment for this to soak in—

“In the future, Mr Malfoy, Miss Granger, before you come to my office
with any request, consider whether there is a way for you to accomplish
it without my help. I will not deduct Quirrell points on this occasion,
but next time you may expect to lose the full fifty.” Professor Quirrell
wore an amused grin. “And what do you have to say about that,
Mr Potter?”

Harry Potter’s gaze went to Granger, then to Draco. His face appeared
calm; though Draco was sure controlled would have been the better term.

Finally Harry Potter spoke, his voice level. “The Chaos Legion is still
happy to accept traitors. See you on the battlefield.”

Draco knew the shock was showing on his own face; there were astonished
murmurs from the watching students, and when Draco glanced at the front
row he saw that even Harry’s Chaotics looked taken aback.

Granger’s face was angry, and getting angrier. “Mr Potter,” she said in
a sharp tone like she thought she was a teacher, “are you trying to be
obnoxious?”

“Most certainly not,” Harry Potter said calmly. “I won’t make you do it
every time. Beat me once, and I’ll stay beaten. But threats aren’t
always enough, General of Sunshine. You did not ask me to join with you,
but tried simply to impose your will; and sometimes you must actually
defeat the enemy, to impose your will on him. You see, I am skeptical
that Hermione Granger, the brightest academic star of Hogwarts, and
Draco, son of Lucius, scion of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Malfoy, can work together to beat their common foe, Harry Potter.” An
amused smile crossed Harry Potter’s face. “Maybe I’ll just do what Draco
tried with Zabini, and write a letter to Lucius Malfoy and see what he
thinks about that.”

“Harry!” gasped Granger, looking absolutely aghast, and there were gasps
from the audience as well.

Draco controlled the anger flushing through him. That had been a stupid
move on Harry’s part, saying that in public. If Harry had simply done
it, it might have worked, Draco hadn’t even thought about that, but now
if Father did that it would look like he was playing into Harry’s hands—

“If you think my father, Lord Malfoy, can be manipulated by you that
easily,” Draco said coldly, “you have a surprise coming, Harry Potter.”

And Draco realized as the words finished leaving his mouth that he’d
just backed his own father squarely into the corner, more or less
without even meaning to. Father probably wasn’t going to like this, not
the tiniest bit, but now it would be impossible for him to say so… Draco
would have to apologize for that, it had been an honest accident, but it
was strange to think that he’d done it at all.

“Then go ahead and defeat the evil General Chaos,” Harry said, still
looking amused. “I can’t win against both your armies—not if you really
work together. But I wonder if perhaps I could break you up before
then.”

“You won’t, and we’ll crush you!” said Draco Malfoy.

And beside him, Hermione Granger firmly nodded.

“Well,” said Professor Quirrell after the astounded silence had
stretched for a while. “That was not how I expected that particular
conversation to go.” The Defence Professor had a rather intrigued
expression on his face. “Truthfully, Mr Potter, I expected you to
concede immediately and with a smile, then announce that you had long
since worked out my intended lesson but had decided not to spoil it for
others. Indeed, I planned my speech accordingly, Mr Potter.”

Harry Potter just shrugged. “Sorry about that,” he said, and said
nothing more.

“Oh, don’t worry,” said Professor Quirrell. “This, too, will serve.”

And Professor Quirrell turned from the three children, and straightened
at the podium to address the whole watching crowd; his customary air of
detached amusement dropped away like a falling mask, and when he spoke
again his voice was amplified louder than it had been.

“If not for Harry Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, his voice as crisp
and cold as December, “You-Know-Who would have won.”

The silence was instant, and total.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Make no mistake,” said Professor Quirrell. “The Dark Lord was winning.
There were fewer and fewer Aurors who dared face him, the vigilantes who
opposed him were being hunted down. One Dark Lord and perhaps fifty
Death Eaters were winning against a country of thousands. That is beyond
ridiculous! There are no grades low enough for me to mark that
incompetence!”

There was a frown on the face of Headmaster Dumbledore; and on the faces
of the audience, puzzlement; and the utter silence went on.

“Do you understand now how it happened? You saw it today. I allowed
traitors, and gave the generals no means to restrain them. You saw the
result. Clever plots and clever betrayals, until the last soldier left
on the battlefield shot himself! You cannot possibly doubt that all
three of those armies could have been defeated by any outside foe that
was unified within itself.”

Professor Quirrell leaned forward at the podium, his voice now filled
with a grim intensity. His right hand stretched out, fingers open and
spread. “Division is weakness,” said the Defence Professor. His hand
closed into a tight fist. “Unity is strength. The Dark Lord understood
that well, whatever his other follies; and he used that understanding to
create the one simple invention that made him the most terrible Dark
Lord in history. Your parents faced one Dark Lord. And fifty Death
Eaters who were perfectly unified, knowing that any breach of their
loyalty would be punished by death, that any slack or incompetence would
be punished by pain. None could escape the Dark Lord’s grasp once they
took his Mark. And the Death Eaters agreed to take that terrible Mark
because they knew that once they took it, they would be united, facing a
divided land. One Dark Lord and fifty Death Eaters would have defeated
an entire country, by the power of the Dark Mark.”

Professor Quirrell’s voice was bleak and hard. “Your parents could have
fought back in kind. They did not. There was a man named Yermy Wibble
who called upon the nation to institute a draft, though he did not quite
have vision enough to propose a Mark of Britain. Yermy Wibble knew what
would happen to him; he hoped his death would inspire others. So the
Dark Lord took his family for good measure. Their empty skins inspired
nothing but fear, and no-one dared to speak again. And your parents
would have faced the consequences of their despicable cowardice, if not
for being saved by a one-year-old boy.” Professor Quirrell’s face showed
full contempt. “A dramatist would have called that a deus ex machina,
for they did nothing to earn their salvation. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named
may not have deserved to win, but make no doubt of it, your parents
deserved to lose.”

The voice of the Defence Professor rang forth like iron. “And know this:
your parents have learned nothing! The nation is still fragmented and
weak! How few decades passed between Grindelwald and You-Know-Who? Do
you think you will not see the next threat in your own lifetimes? Will
you repeat then the follies of your parents, when you have seen the
results so clearly laid out before you this day? For I can tell you what
your parents will do, when the day of darkness comes! I can tell you
what lesson they have learned! They have learned to hide like cowards
and do nothing while they wait for Harry Potter to save them!”

There was a wondering look in the eyes of Headmaster Dumbledore; and
other students gazed up at their Defence Professor with bewilderment and
anger and awe.

Professor Quirrell’s eyes were as cold now as his voice. “Mark this, and
mark it well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named wished to rule over this country,
to hold it in his cruel grasp forever. But at least he wished to rule
over a living country, and not a heap of ash! There have been Dark Lords
who were mad, who wished only to make the world a vast funeral pyre!
There have been wars in which one whole country marched against another!
Your parents nearly lost against half a hundred, who thought to take
this country alive! How quickly would they have been crushed by a foe
more numerous than they, a foe that cared for nothing but their
destruction? This I foretell: when the next threat rises, Lucius Malfoy
will claim that you must follow him or perish, that your only hope is to
trust in his cruelty and strength. And though Lucius Malfoy himself will
believe it, this will be a lie. For when the Dark Lord perished, Lucius
Malfoy did not unite the Death Eaters, they were shattered in an
instant, they fled like whipped dogs and betrayed each other! Lucius
Malfoy is not strong enough to be a true Lord, Dark or otherwise.”

Draco Malfoy’s fists were clenched white, there were tears in his eyes,
and fury, and unbearable shame.

“No,” said Professor Quirrell, “I do not think it will be Lucius Malfoy
who saves you. And lest you think that I speak on my own behalf, time
will make clear soon enough that this is not so. I make you no
recommendation, my students. But I say that if a whole country were to
find a leader as strong as the Dark Lord, but honourable and pure, and
take his Mark; then they could crush any Dark Lord like an insect, and
all the rest of our divided magical world could not threaten them. And
if some still greater enemy rose against us in a war of extermination,
then only a united magical world could survive.”

There were gasps, mostly from Muggle-borns; the students in
green-trimmed robes looked merely puzzled. Now it was Harry Potter whose
fists were clenched tight and trembling; and Hermione Granger beside him
was angry and dismayed.

The Headmaster rose from his seat, his face now stern, saying no word as
yet; but the command was clear.

“I do not say what threat will come,” said Professor Quirrell. “But you
will not live all your lives in peace, not if the past history of the
world is any guide at all to its future. And if you do in the future as
you have seen three armies do this day, if you cannot throw aside your
petty bickering and take the Mark of a single leader, then indeed you
might wish that the Dark Lord had lived to rule over you, and regret the
day that ever Harry Potter was born—”

“Enough!” bellowed Albus Dumbledore.

There was silence.

Professor Quirrell slowly turned his head to gaze at where Albus
Dumbledore stood in the fury of his wizardry; their eyes met, and a
soundless stress pressed down like weight upon all the students, as they
listened not daring to move.

“You, too, failed this country,” said Professor Quirrell. “And you know
the peril as well as I.”

“Such speeches are not for the ears of students,” said Albus Dumbledore
in a dangerously rising voice. “Nor for the mouths of professors!”

Dryly, then, Professor Quirrell spoke: “There were many speeches made
for the ears of adults, as the Dark Lord rose. And the adults clapped
and cheered, and went home having enjoyed their day’s entertainment. But
I will obey you, Headmaster, and make no further speeches if you do not
like them. My lesson is simple. I will go on doing nothing about
traitors, and we will see what students can do for themselves about
that, when they do not wait for professors to save them.”

And then Professor Quirrell turned back to his students, and his mouth
twitched up in a wry grin that seemed to dissipate the dreadful pressure
like a god blowing to scatter the clouds. “But do please be kind to the
traitors up until now,” said Professor Quirrell. “They were just having
fun.”

There was laughter, though it was nervous at first, and then it seemed
to build, as Professor Quirrell stood there smiling wryly and some of
the tension released itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco’s mind was still whirling through a thousand questions and a daze
of horror, as Professor Quirrell prepared to open the envelopes in which
the three had inscribed their wishes.

It had never before occurred to Draco that moon-travelling Muggles were
a greater threat than the slow decline of wizardry, or that Father had
proven himself too weak to stop them.

And even stranger, the obvious implication: Professor Quirrell believed
that Harry could. The Defence Professor claimed to have made no
recommendation, but he’d mentioned Harry Potter over and over in his
speech; others would already be thinking the same thing as Draco.

It was ridiculous. The boy who had covered a stuffed chair in glitter
and called it a throne—

The boy who faced down Snape and won, whispered a traitorous voice, that
boy could grow into a Lord strong enough to rule, strong enough to save
us all—

Harry had been raised by Muggles! He was practically a mudblood himself,
he wouldn’t fight against his adopted family—

He knows their arts, their secrets and their methods; he can take all of
the Muggles’ science and use it against them, alongside our own power as
wizards.

But what if he refuses? What if he’s too weak?

Then, said that inner voice, it will have to be you, won’t it, Draco
Malfoy?

And then there was a renewed hush from the crowd, as Professor Quirrell
opened the first envelope.

“Mr Malfoy,” said Professor Quirrell, “your wish is for… Slytherin to
win the House Cup.”

There was a puzzled pause from the watching audience.

“Yes, Professor,” said Draco in a clear voice, knowing that it was once
again being amplified. “If you can’t do that, then something else for
Slytherin—”

“I will not award House points unfairly,” said Professor Quirrell. He
tapped a cheek, looking thoughtful. “Which makes your wish difficult
enough to be interesting. Would you like to say anything about why,
Mr Malfoy?”

Draco turned from the Defence Professor, gazed out at the crowd from
against that backdrop of platinum and emeralds. Not all of Slytherin had
cheered for Dragon Army, there were anti-Malfoy factions who had
expressed that dissatisfaction by supporting the Boy-Who-Lived, or even
Granger; and those factions would be encouraged greatly by what Zabini
had done. He needed to remind them that Slytherin meant Malfoy and
Malfoy meant Slytherin—

“No,” said Draco. “They’re Slytherins, they’ll understand.”

There was some laughter from the audience, especially in Slytherin, even
from some students who would have called themselves anti-Malfoy a moment
earlier.

Flattery was a lovely thing.

Draco turned back to look at Professor Quirrell again, and was surprised
to see an embarrassed look on Granger’s face.

“And for Miss Granger…” said Professor Quirrell. There was the sound of
a tearing envelope. “Your wish is for… Ravenclaw to win the House Cup?”

There was considerable laughter from the audience, including a chuckle
from Draco. He hadn’t thought Granger played that game.

“Well, um,” said Granger, sounding like she was suddenly stumbling over
a memorized speech, “I meant to say, that…” She took a deep breath.
“There were soldiers from every House in my army, and I don’t mean to
slight any of them. But Houses should still count for something, too. It
was sad when students in the same House were hexing each other just
because they were in different armies. People should be able to rely on
whoever’s in their House. That’s why Godric Gryffindor, and Salazar
Slytherin, and Rowena Ravenclaw, and Helga Hufflepuff created the four
Houses of Hogwarts in the first place. I’m the General of Sunshine, but
even before that, I’m Hermione Granger of Ravenclaw, and I’m proud to be
part of a House that’s eight hundred years old.”

“Well said, Miss Granger!” said Dumbledore’s booming voice.

Harry Potter was frowning, and something tickled at the edge of Draco’s
recognition.

“An interesting sentiment, Miss Granger,” said Professor Quirrell. “But
there are times when it is good for a Slytherin to have friends in
Ravenclaw, or for a Gryffindor to have friends in Hufflepuff. Surely it
would be best if you could rely both on your friends in your House, and
also your friends in your army?”

Granger’s eyes flicked briefly toward the watching students and
teachers, and she said nothing.

Professor Quirrell nodded as though to himself, and then turned back to
the podium, and took up and tore open the last envelope. Beside Draco,
Harry Potter visibly tensed up as the Defence Professor drew forth the
parchment. “And Mr Potter wishes for—”

There was a pause as Professor Quirrell looked at the parchment.

Then, without any change of expression on Professor Quirrell’s face, the
sheet of parchment burst into flames, and burned with a brief, intense
fire that left only drifting black dust sprinkling down from his hand.

“Please confine yourself to the possible, Mr Potter,” said Professor
Quirrell, sounding very dry indeed.

There was a long pause; Harry, standing beside Draco, looked rather
shaken.

What in Merlin’s name did he ask for?

“I do hope,” said Professor Quirrell, “that you prepared another wish,
if I could not grant that one.”

There was another pause.

Harry drew a deep breath. “I didn’t,” he said, “but I already thought of
another one.” Harry Potter turned to look out at the audience, and his
voice firmed as he spoke. “People fear traitors because of the damage
the traitor does directly, the soldiers they shoot or the secrets they
tell. But that’s only part of the danger. What people do because they’re
afraid of traitors also costs them. I used that strategy today against
Sunshine and Dragon. I didn’t tell my traitors to cause as much direct
damage as possible. I told them to act in the way that would create the
most distrust and confusion, and make the generals do the most costly
things to try and stop them from doing it again. When there are just a
few traitors and a whole country opposing them, it stands to reason that
what a few traitors do might be less damaging than what a whole country
does to stop them, that the cure might be worse than the disease—”

“Mr Potter,” said the Defence Professor, his voice suddenly cutting,
“the lesson of history is that you are simply wrong. Your parents’
generation did too little to unify themselves, not too much! This whole
country almost fell, Mr Potter, though you were not there to see it. I
suggest that you ask your dorm-mates in Ravenclaw how many of them have
lost family to the Dark Lord. Or if you are wiser, do not ask! Do you
have a wish to make, Mr Potter?”

“If you don’t mind,” said the mild voice of Albus Dumbledore, “I should
like to hear what the Boy-Who-Lived has to say. He has more experience
than either of us at stopping wars.”

A few people laughed, but not many.

Harry Potter’s gaze moved to Dumbledore, and he looked considering for a
moment. “I’m not saying you’re wrong, Professor Quirrell. In the last
war, people didn’t act together, and a whole country almost fell to a
few dozen attackers, and yes, that was pathetic. And if we make the same
mistake next time, yes, that’ll be even more pathetic. But you never
fight the same war twice. And the problem is, the enemy is also allowed
to be smart. If you’re divided you’re vulnerable in one way; but when
you try to unite, then you face other risks, and other costs, and the
enemy will try to take advantage of those, too. You can’t stop thinking
at just one level of the game.”

“Simplicity also has a great deal to commend it, Mr Potter,” said the
dry voice of the Defence Professor. “I do hope that you have learned
something this day about the dangers of strategies more complicated than
uniting your people and attacking your enemy. And if all this does not
tie into your wish somehow, I shall be quite annoyed.”

“Yes,” said Harry Potter, “it was pretty difficult coming up with a wish
to symbolize the costs of unity. But the problem of acting together
isn’t just for wars, it’s something we have to solve all our lives,
every day. If everyone is coordinating using the same rules, and the
rules are stupid, then if one person decides to do things differently,
they’re breaking the rules. But if everyone decides to do things
differently, they can. It’s exactly the same problem of everyone needing
to act together. But for the first person who speaks out, it seems like
they’re going against the crowd. And if you thought that the only
important thing was that people should always be unified, then you could
never change the game, no matter how stupid the rules. So my own wish,
to symbolize what happens when people unite in the wrong direction, is
that in Hogwarts we should play Quidditch without the Snitch.”

“WHAT?” screamed a hundred voices in the crowd, as Draco’s jaw dropped.

“The Snitch ruins the whole game,” said Harry Potter. “Everything the
other players do ends up being irrelevant. It would make overwhelmingly
more sense to just buy a clock. It’s one of those incredibly stupid
things you don’t notice just because you grew up with it, that people
only do because everyone else is doing it—”

But by that point Harry Potter’s voice could no longer be heard, because
the riot had started.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The riot ended around fifteen seconds later, after a gigantic spout of
fire blasted out of the highest tower of Hogwarts to the sound of a
hundred thunders. Draco hadn’t known Dumbledore could do that.

The students sat down again very carefully and quietly.

Professor Quirrell was laughing, without pause. “So be it, Mr Potter.
Your will be done.” The Defence Professor paused deliberately. “Of
course, I only promised one cunning plot. And that is all that the three
of you will get.”

Draco had been half-expecting the words earlier, but now they still came
as a shock; Draco exchanged rapid glances with Granger, they would have
been the obvious allies but their wishes were directly opposed—

“You mean,” said Harry, “we have to all agree on a wish?”

“Oh, that would be far too much to ask,” said Professor Quirrell. “The
three of you have no common enemy, do you?”

And for one brief moment, so fast that Draco thought he might have
imagined it, the Defence Professor’s eyes flicked in the direction of
Dumbledore.

“No,” said Professor Quirrell, “I mean that I shall grant three wishes
using a single plot.”

There was a confused silence.

“You can’t do that,” Harry said flatly from beside Draco. “Not even I
can do that. Two of those wishes are mutually incompatible. It’s
logically impossible—” and then Harry cut himself off.

“You’re a few years too young to tell me what I can’t do, Mr Potter,”
said Professor Quirrell, with a brief dry smile.

Then the Defence Professor turned back to the watching students.
“Truthfully, I have no confidence in your ability to learn this day’s
lesson. Go home, and enjoy your time with your families, or what’s left
of them, while they still live. My own family is long since dead at the
Dark Lord’s hand. I shall see you all when classes resume.”

In the speechless silence that resulted, Professor Quirrell already
turning to walk off the stage, Draco heard the Defence Professor’s voice
say, quietly and no longer amplified, “But you, Mr Potter, I would speak
to now.”

35. Coordination Problems, Part III

THEY had gone to the Defence Professor’s office, and Professor Quirrell
had sealed the door before he leaned back in his chair and spoke.

The Defence Professor’s voice was very calm, and that unnerved Harry a
good deal more than if Professor Quirrell had been shouting.

“I am trying,” said Professor Quirrell quietly, “to make allowances for
the fact that you are young. That I myself, at the same age, was a quite
extraordinary fool. You speak with adult style and meddle in adult
games, and sometimes I forget that you are only a meddler. I hope,
Mr Potter, that your childish meddling has not just killed you, ruined
your country, and lost the next war.”

It was very hard for Harry to control his breathing. “Professor
Quirrell, I said a good deal less than I wished to say, but I had to say
something. Your proposals are extremely alarming to anyone who has the
slightest familiarity with Muggle history over the last century. The
Italian fascists, some very nasty people, got their name from the
fasces, a bundle of rods bound together to symbolize the idea that unity
is strength—”

“So the nasty Italian fascists believed that unity is stronger than
division,” said Professor Quirrell. Sharpness was beginning to creep
into his voice. “Perhaps they also believed that the sky is blue, and
advocated a policy of not dropping rocks on your head.”

Reversed stupidity is not intelligence; the world’s stupidest person may
say the sun is shining, but that doesn’t make it dark out… “Fine, you’re
right, that was an ad hominem argument, it’s not wrong because the
fascists said it. But Professor Quirrell, you can’t have everyone in a
country take the Mark of one dictator! It’s a single point of failure!
Look, I’ll put it this way. Suppose the enemy just Imperiuses whoever
controls the Mark—”

“Powerful wizards are not so easy to Imperius,” said Professor Quirrell
dryly. “And if you cannot find a worthy leader, you are in any case
doomed. But worthy leaders do exist; the question is whether the people
shall follow them.”

Harry raked his hands through his hair in frustration. He wanted to call
a time-out and make Professor Quirrell read The Rise and Fall of the
Third Reich and then start the conversation over again. “I don’t suppose
that if I suggested democracy was a better form of government than
dictatorship—”

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell. His eyes closed briefly, then opened.
“Mr Potter, the stupidity of Quidditch is transparent to you because you
did not grow up revering the game. If you had never heard of elections,
Mr Potter, and you simply saw what is there, what you saw would not
please you. Look to our elected Minister of Magic. Is he the wisest, the
strongest, the greatest of our nation? No; he is a buffoon who is owned
in fee simple by Lucius Malfoy. Wizards went to the polls and chose
between Cornelius Fudge and Tania Leach, who had competed with each
other in a grand and entertaining contest after the Daily Prophet, which
Lucius Malfoy also controls, decided that they were the only serious
candidates. That Cornelius Fudge was genuinely selected as the best
leader our country could offer is not a suggestion anyone could make
with a straight face. It is no different in the Muggle world, from what
I have heard and seen; the last Muggle newspaper I read mentioned that
the previous President of the United States had been a retired film
actor. If you had not grown up with elections, Mr Potter, they would be
as transparently silly to you as Quidditch.”

Harry sat there with his mouth open, struggling for words. “The point of
elections isn’t to produce the one best leader, it’s to keep politicians
scared enough of the voters that they don’t go completely evil like
dictators do—”

“The last war, Mr Potter, was fought between the Dark Lord and
Dumbledore. And while Dumbledore was a flawed leader who was losing the
war, it is ridiculous to suggest that any of the Ministers of Magic
elected during that period could have taken Dumbledore’s place! Strength
flows from powerful wizards and their followers, not from elections and
the fools they elect. That is the lesson of magical Britain’s recent
history; and I doubt that the next war will teach you a lesson any
different. If you survive it, Mr Potter, which you will not do unless
you abandon the enthusiastic illusions of childhood!”

“If you think there are no dangers in the course of action you
advocate,” said Harry, and despite everything his voice was growing
sharp, “then that, too, is childish enthusiasm.”

Harry stared grimly into Professor Quirrell’s eyes, who stared back
without blinking.

“Such dangers,” said Professor Quirrell coldly, “are to be discussed in
offices like this one, not in speeches. The fools who elected Cornelius
Fudge are not interested in complications and caution. Present them with
anything more nuanced than a rousing cheer, and you will face your war
alone. That, Mr Potter, was your childish error, which Draco Malfoy
would not have made even when he was eight years old. It should have
been obvious even to you that you should have stayed silent, and
consulted with me first, not spoken your worries before the crowd!”

“I am no friend of Albus Dumbledore,” said Harry, a cold in his voice to
match Professor Quirrell’s. “But he is no child, and he did not seem to
think my concerns were childish, nor that I should have waited to speak
them.”

“Oh,” said Professor Quirrell, “so you take your cues from the
Headmaster now, do you?” and stood up from behind his desk.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Blaise turned the corner on the way to the office, he saw that
Professor Quirrell was already leaning against the wall.

“Blaise Zabini,” said the Defence Professor, straightening; his eyes
were set like dark stones within his face, and his voice sent a shiver
of fear down Blaise’s spine.

He can’t do anything against me, I just have to remember that—

“I believe,” said Professor Quirrell, in a clear, cold voice, “that I
have already guessed the name of your employer. But I would hear it from
your own lips, and tell me also the price that bought you.”

Blaise knew he was sweating under his robes, and that the moisture would
be already visible on his forehead. “I got a chance to show I was better
than all three generals, and I took it. A lot of people hate me now, but
there’re also plenty of Slytherins who’ll love me for it. What makes you
think I’m—”

“You did not devise the plan of today’s battle, Mr Zabini. Tell me who
did.”

Blaise swallowed hard. “Well… I mean, in that case… then you already
know who did, right? The only one who’s that crazy is Dumbledore. And
he’ll protect me if you try to do anything.”

“Indeed. Tell me the price.” The Defence Professor’s eyes were still
hard.

“It’s my cousin Kimberly,” Blaise said, swallowing again and trying to
control his voice. “She’s real, and she’s really being bullied, Potter
checked that, he wasn’t dumb. Only Dumbledore said that he’d nudged the
bullies into doing it, just for the plan, and if I worked for him she’d
be fine afterwards, but if I did go with Potter, there was more trouble
Kimberly could get into!”

Professor Quirrell was silent for a long moment.

“I see,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice now much milder. “Mr Zabini,
should such an event occur again, you may contact me directly. I have my
own ways of protecting my friends. Now, a final question: even with all
the power you took into your hands, forcing a tie would have been
difficult. Did Dumbledore instruct you as to who should win otherwise?”

“Sunshine,” said Blaise.

Professor Quirrell nodded. “As I thought.” The Defence Professor sighed.
“In your future career, Mr Zabini, I do not suggest trying any plots
that complicated. They have a tendency to fail.”

“Um, I said that to the Headmaster, actually,” Blaise said, “and he said
that was why it was important to have more than one plot going at a
time.”

Professor Quirrell passed a weary hand across his forehead. “It’s a
wonder the Dark Lord didn’t go mad from fighting him. You may go on to
your meeting with the Headmaster, Mr Zabini. I will say nothing of this,
but if the Headmaster should somehow discover that we have spoken,
remember my standing offer to give you what protection I can. You are
dismissed.”

Blaise didn’t wait for any other word, just turned and fled.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professor Quirrell waited for a time, and then said, “Go ahead,
Mr Potter.”

Harry tore the Cloak of Invisibility off his head and stuffed into his
pouch. He was trembling with so much rage he could hardly speak. “He
what? He did what?”

“You should have deduced it yourself, Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell
said mildly. “You must learn to blur your vision until you can see the
forest obscured by the trees. Anyone who heard the stories about you,
and who did not know that you were the mysterious Boy-Who-Lived, could
easily deduce your ownership of an invisibility cloak. Step back from
these events, blur away their details, and what do we observe? There was
a great rivalry between students, and their competition ended in a
perfect tie. That sort of thing only happens in stories, Mr Potter, and
there is one person in this school who thinks in stories. There was a
strange and complicated plot, which you should have realized was
uncharacteristic of the young Slytherin you faced. But there is a person
in this school who deals in plots that elaborate, and his name is not
Zabini. And I did warn you that there was a quadruple agent; you knew
that Zabini was at least a triple agent, and you should have guessed a
high chance that it was he. No, I will not declare the battle invalid.
All three of you failed the test, and lost to your common enemy.”

Harry didn’t care about tests at this point. “Dumbledore blackmailed
Zabini by threatening his cousin? Just to make our battle end in a tie?
Why?”

Professor Quirrell gave a mirthless laugh. “Perhaps the Headmaster
thought the rivalry was good for his pet hero and wished to see it
continue. For the greater good, you understand. Or perhaps he was simply
mad. You see, Mr Potter, everyone knows that Dumbledore’s madness is a
mask, that he is sane pretending to be insane. They pride themselves on
that clever insight, and knowing the secret explanation, they stop
looking. It does not occur to them that it is also possible to have a
mask behind the mask, to be insane pretending to be sane pretending to
be insane. And I am afraid, Mr Potter, that I have urgent business
elsewhere, and must depart; but I should strongly advise you not to take
your cues from Albus Dumbledore when fighting a war. Until later,
Mr Potter.”

And the Defence Professor inclined his head with some irony, and then
strode off in the same direction Zabini had fled, while Harry was still
standing in open-mouthed shock.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Harry Potter

Harry trudged slowly toward the Ravenclaw dorm, eyes unseeing of walls,
paintings, or other students; he went up stairs and down ramps without
slowing, speeding, or noticing where he trod.

It had taken him more than a minute after Professor Quirrell’s departure
to realize that his only source of information about Dumbledore being
involved was (a) Blaise Zabini, who he would have to be an absolute
gaping idiot to trust again, and (b) Professor Quirrell, who could have
easily faked a plot in Dumbledore’s style, and who might also think that
a little student rivalry was a fine thing; and who had, if you stepped
back and blurred out the details, just proposed turning the country into
a magical dictatorship.

And it was also possible that Dumbledore was the one behind Zabini, and
that Professor Quirrell had been sincerely trying to fight the Dark Mark
in kind, and prevent the repetition of a performance he saw as pathetic.
Trying to make sure that Harry didn’t end up fighting the Dark Lord
alone, while everyone else hid, frightened, trying to stay out of the
line of fire, waiting for Harry to save them.

But the truth was…

Well…

Harry was sort of okay with that.

It was, he knew, the kind of thing that was supposed to make heroes
resentful and bitter.

To heck with that. Harry was very much in favour of everyone else
staying out of danger while the Boy-Who-Lived took down the Dark Lord by
himself, plus or minus a small number of companions. If the next
conflict with the Dark Lord got to the point of a Second Wizarding War
that killed lots of people and embroiled a whole country, that would
mean Harry had already failed.

And if afterwards a war broke out between wizards and Muggles, it didn’t
matter who won, Harry would have already failed by letting it get that
far. Besides, who said the societies couldn’t peacefully integrate when
the secrecy inevitably broke down? (Though Harry could hear Professor
Quirrell’s dry voice in his mind, asking him if he was a fool, and
saying all the obvious things…) And if mages and Muggles couldn’t live
in peace, then Harry would combine magic and science and figure out how
to evacuate all the wizards to Mars or somewhere, instead of letting a
war break out.

Because if it did come down to a war of extermination…

That was the thing Professor Quirrell hadn’t realized, the one most
important question he’d forgotten to ask his young general.

The real reason why Harry had no intention of being argued into
endorsing a Light Mark, no matter how much it would help him in his
fight against the Dark Lord.

One Dark Lord and fifty Marked followers had been a peril to all of
magical Britain.

If all Britain took the Mark of a strong leader, they would be a peril
to the whole magical world.

And if the whole wizarding world took a single Mark, they would be a
danger to the rest of humanity.

No-one knew quite how many wizards there were in the world. He’d done a
few estimates with Hermione and come up with numbers in the rough range
of a million.

But there were six billion Muggles.

If it came down to a final war…

Professor Quirrell had forgotten to ask Harry which side he would
protect.

A scientific civilization, reaching outward, looking upward, knowing
that its destiny was to grasp the stars.

And a magical civilization, slowly fading as knowledge was lost, still
governed by a nobility that saw Muggles as not quite human.

It was a terribly sad feeling, but not one that held any hint of doubt.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Blaise Zabini

Blaise strolled through the hallways with careful, self-imposed
slowness, his heart beating wildly as he tried to calm down—

“Ahem,” said a dry, whispering voice from a shadowy alcove as he passed.

Blaise jumped, but he didn’t scream.

Slowly, he turned.

In that small, shadowy corner was a black cloak so wide and billowing
that it was impossible to determine whether the figure beneath was male
or female, and atop the cloak a broad-brimmed black hat, and a black
mist seemed to gather beneath it and obscure the face of whoever or
whatever might lie beneath.

“Report,” whispered Mr Hat and Cloak.

“I said just what you told me to,” said Blaise. His voice was a little
calmer now that he wasn’t lying to anyone. “And Professor Quirrell
reacted just the way you expected.”

The broad black hat tilted and straightened, as though the head below
had nodded. “Excellent,” said the unidentifiable whisper. “The reward I
promised you is already on its way to your mother, by owl.”

Blaise hesitated, but his curiosity was eating him alive. “Can I ask now
why you want to cause trouble between Professor Quirrell and
Dumbledore?” The Headmaster hadn’t had anything to do with the
Gryffindor bullies that Blaise knew about, and besides helping Kimberly,
the Headmaster had also offered to make Professor Binns give him
excellent marks in History of Magic even if he turned in blank
parchments for his homework, though he’d still have to attend class and
pretend to hand them in. Actually Blaise would have betrayed all three
generals for free, and never mind his cousin either, but he’d seen no
need to say that.

The broad black hat cocked to one side, as if to convey a quizzical
stare. “Tell me, friend Blaise, did it occur to you that traitors who
betray so many times over often meet with ill ends?”

“Nope,” said Blaise, looking straight into the black mist under the hat.
“Everyone knows that nothing really bad ever happens to students in
Hogwarts.”

Mr Hat and Cloak gave a whispering chuckle. “Indeed,” said the whisper.
“With the murder of one student five decades ago being the exception
that proves the rule, since Salazar Slytherin would have keyed his
monster into the ancient wards at a higher level than the Headmaster
himself.”

Blaise stared at the black mist, now beginning to feel a little uneasy.
But it ought to take a Hogwarts professor to do anything significant to
him without setting off alarms. Quirrell and Snape were the only
professors who’d do something like this, and Quirrell wouldn’t care
about fooling himself, and Snape wouldn’t hurt one of his own
Slytherins… would he?

“No, friend Blaise,” whispered the black mist, “I only wished to advise
you never to try anything like this in your adult life. So many
betrayals would certainly lead to at least one vengeance.”

“My mother never got any vengeances,” said Blaise proudly. “Even though
she married seven husbands and every single one of them died
mysteriously and left her lots of money.”

“Really?” said the whisper. “However did she persuade the seventh to
marry her after he heard what happened to the first six?”

“I asked Mum that,” said Blaise, “and she said I couldn’t know until I
was old enough, and I asked her how old was old enough, and she said,
older than her.”

Again the whispering chuckle. “Well then, friend Blaise, my
congratulations on having followed in your mother’s footsteps. Go, and
if you say nothing of this, we will not meet again.”

Blaise backed uneasily away, feeling an odd reluctance to turn his back.

The hat tilted. “Oh, come now, little Slytherin. If you were truly the
equal of Harry Potter or Draco Malfoy, you would have already realized
that my hinted threats were just to ensure your silence before Albus.
Had I intended to harm, I would not have hinted; had I said nothing,
then you should have worried.”

Blaise straightened, feeling a little insulted, and nodded to Mr Hat and
Cloak; then turned decisively and strode off toward his meeting with the
Headmaster.

He’d been hoping to the very end that someone else would show up and
give him a chance to sell out Mr Hat and Cloak.

But then Mum hadn’t betrayed seven different husbands at the same time.
When you looked at it that way, he was still doing better than her.

And Blaise Zabini went on walking toward the Headmaster’s office,
smiling, content to be a quintuple agent—

For a moment the boy stumbled, but then straightened, shaking off the
odd feeling of disorientation.

And Blaise Zabini went on walking toward the Headmaster’s office,
smiling, content to be a quadruple agent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Hermione Granger

The messenger didn’t approach her until she was alone.

Hermione was just leaving the girl’s bathroom where she sometimes hid to
think, and a bright shining cat leaped out of nowhere and said,
“Miss Granger?”

She let out a little shriek before she realized the cat had spoken in
Professor McGonagall’s voice.

Even so she hadn’t been frightened, only startled; the cat was bright
and brilliant and beautiful, glowing with a white silver radiance like
moon-coloured sunlight, and she couldn’t imagine being scared.

“What are you?” said Hermione.

“This is a message from Professor McGonagall,” said the cat, still in
the Professor’s voice. “Can you come to my office, and not speak of this
to anyone?”

“I’ll be there right away,” said Hermione, still surprised, and the cat
leaped and vanished; only it didn’t vanish, it travelled away somehow;
or that was what her mind said, even though her eyes just saw it
disappear.

By the time Hermione had got to the office of her favourite professor,
her mind was all a-whirl with speculations. Was there something wrong
with her Transfiguration scores? But then why would Professor McGonagall
say not to tell anyone? It was probably about Harry practising his
partial Transfiguration…

Professor McGonagall’s face looked worried, not stern, as Hermione
seated herself in front of the desk—trying to keep her eyes from going
to the nest of cubbyholes containing Professor McGonagall’s homework,
she’d always wondered what sort of work grown-ups had to do to keep the
school running and whether they could use any help from her…

“Miss Granger,” said Professor McGonagall, “let me start by saying that
I already know about the Headmaster asking you to make that wish—”

“He told you?” blurted Hermione, startled. The Headmaster had said
no-one else was supposed to know!

Professor McGonagall paused, looked at Hermione, and gave a sad little
chuckle. “It’s good to see Mr Potter hasn’t corrupted you too much.
Miss Granger, you aren’t supposed to admit anything just because I say I
know. As it happens, the Headmaster did not tell me, I simply know him
too well.”

Hermione was blushing furiously now.

“It’s fine, Miss Granger!” said Professor McGonagall hastily. “You’re a
Ravenclaw in your first year, nobody expects you to be a Slytherin.”

That really stung.

“Fine,” said Hermione with some acerbity, “I’ll go ask Harry Potter for
Slytherin lessons, then.”

“That wasn’t what I wanted to…” said Professor McGonagall, and her voice
trailed off. “Miss Granger, I’m worried about this because young
Ravenclaw girls shouldn’t have to be Slytherins! If the Headmaster asks
you to get involved in something you’re not comfortable with,
Miss Granger, it really is all right to say no. And if you’re feeling
pressured, please tell the Headmaster that you would like me to be
there, or that you would like to ask me first.”

Hermione’s eyes were very wide. “Does the Headmaster do things that are
wrong?”

Professor McGonagall looked a little sad at that. “Not on purpose,
Miss Granger, but I think… well, it probably is true that sometimes the
Headmaster has trouble remembering what it’s like to be a child. Even
when he was a child, I’m sure he must have been brilliant, and strong of
mind and heart, with courage enough for three Gryffindors. Sometimes the
Headmaster asks too much of his young students, Miss Granger, or isn’t
careful enough not to hurt them. He is a good man, but sometimes his
plotting can go too far.”

“But it’s good for students to be strong and have courage,” said
Hermione. “That’s why you suggested Gryffindor for me, wasn’t it?”

Professor McGonagall smiled wryly. “Perhaps I was only being selfish,
wanting you for my own House. Did the Sorting Hat offer you—no, I should
not have asked.”

“It told me I might go anywhere but Slytherin,” said Hermione. She’d
almost asked why she wasn’t good enough for Slytherin, before she’d
managed to stop herself… “So I have courage, Professor!”

Professor McGonagall leaned forward over her desk. The worry was showing
plainer on her face now. “Miss Granger, it’s not about courage, it’s
about what’s healthy for young girls! The Headmaster is drawing you into
his plots, Harry Potter is giving you his secrets to keep, and now
you’re making alliances with Draco Malfoy! And I promised your mother
that you would be safe at Hogwarts!”

Hermione just didn’t know what to say to that. But the thought was
occurring to her that Professor McGonagall might not have been warning
her if she’d been a boy in Gryffindor instead of a girl in Ravenclaw and
that was, well… “I’ll try to be good,” she said, “and I won’t let anyone
tell me otherwise.”

Professor McGonagall pressed her hands over her eyes. When she took them
away, her lined face looked very old. “Yes,” she said in a whisper, “you
would have done well in my House. Stay safe, Miss Granger, and be
careful. And if you are ever worried or uncomfortable about anything,
please come to me at once. I won’t keep you any longer.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Draco Malfoy

Neither of them really wanted to do anything complicated that Saturday,
not after fighting a battle earlier. So Draco was just sitting in an
unused classroom and trying to read a book called Thinking Physics. It
was one of the most fascinating things that Draco had ever read in his
life, at least the parts he could understand, at least when the accursed
idiot who refused to let his books out of his sight could manage to shut
up and let Draco concentrate—

“Hermione Granger is a muuudbloood,” sang Harry Potter from where he sat
at a nearby desk, reading a far more advanced book of his own.

“I know what you’re trying to do,” said Draco calmly without looking up
from the pages. “It’s not going to work. We’re still ganging up and
crushing you.”

“A Maaaalfoy is working with a muuudbloood, what will all your father’s
frieeeends think—”

“They’ll think Malfoys aren’t as easily manipulated as you seem to
believe, Potter!”

The Defence Professor was crazier than Dumbledore, no future saviour of
the world could ever be this childish and undignified at any age.

“Hey, Draco, you know what’s really going to suck? You know that
Hermione Granger has two copies of the magical allele, just like you and
just like me, but all your classmates in Slytherin don’t know that and
yooouuu’re not allowed to explaaaaain—”

Draco’s fingers were whitening where they gripped the book. Being beaten
and spat upon couldn’t possibly require this much self-control, and if
he didn’t get back at Harry soon, he was going to do something
incriminating—

“So what did you wish the first time?” said Draco.

Harry didn’t say anything, so Draco looked up from his book, and felt a
twinge of malicious satisfaction at the sad look on Harry’s face.

“Um,” Harry said. “A lot of people asked me that, but I don’t think
Professor Quirrell would have wanted me to talk about it.”

Draco put a serious look on his own face. “You can talk about it with
me. It’s probably not important compared to the other secrets you’ve
told me, and what else are friends for?” That’s right, I’m your friend!
Feel guilty!

“It wasn’t really all that interesting,” Harry said with obviously
artificial lightness. “Just, I wish Professor Quirrell would teach
Battle Magic again next year.”

Harry sighed, and looked back down at his book.

And said, after another few seconds, “Your father’s probably going to be
pretty upset with you this Christmas, but if you promise him that you’ll
betray the mudblood girl and wipe out her army, everything will go back
to being all right, and you’ll still get your Christmas presents.”

Maybe if he and Granger asked Professor Quirrell extra politely and used
some of their Quirrell points, the two of them would be allowed to do
something more interesting to General Chaos than putting him to sleep.

36. Status Differentials

WRENCHING disorientation, that was how it felt to walk out of Platform
Nine-and-Three-Quarters into the rest of Earth, the world that Harry had
once thought was the only real world. People dressed in casual shirts
and trousers, instead of the more dignified robes of wizards and
witches. Scattered bits of trash here and there around the benches. A
forgotten smell, the fumes of burned gasoline, raw and sharp in the air.
The ambiance of the King’s Cross train station, less bright and cheerful
than Hogwarts or Diagon Alley; the people seemed smaller, more afraid,
and likely would have eagerly traded their problems for a dark wizard to
fight. Harry wanted to cast Scourgify for the dirt, and Everto for the
garbage, and if he’d known the spell, a Bubble-Head Charm so he wouldn’t
have to breathe the air. But he couldn’t use his wand, in this place…

This, Harry realized, must be what it felt like to go from a First World
country to a Third World country.

Only it was the Zeroth World which Harry had left, the wizarding world,
of Cleansing Charms and house elves; where, between the healer’s arts
and your own magic, you could hit one hundred and seventy before old age
really started catching up with you.

And non-magical London, Muggle Earth, to which Harry had temporarily
returned. This was where Mum and Dad would live out the rest of their
lives, unless technology leapfrogged over wizardry’s quality of life, or
something deeper in the world changed.

Without even thinking about it, Harry’s head turned and his eyes darted
behind him to see the wooden trunk that was scurrying after him,
unnoticed by any Muggles, the clawed tentacles offering quick
confirmation that, yes, he hadn’t just imagined it all…

And then there was the other reason for the tight feeling in his chest.

His parents didn’t know.

They didn’t know anything.

They didn’t know…

“Harry?” called a thin, blonde woman whose perfectly smooth and
unblemished skin made her look a good deal younger than thirty-three;
and Harry realized with a start that it was magic, he hadn’t known the
signs before but he could see them now. And whatever sort of potion
lasted that long, it must have been terribly dangerous, because most
witches didn’t do that to themselves, they weren’t that desperate…

There was water gathering in Harry’s eyes.

“Harry?” yelled an older-looking man with a paunch gathering about his
stomach, dressed with ostentatious academic carelessness in a black
waistcoat thrown over a dark grey-green shirt, someone who would always
be a professor anywhere he went, who would certainly have been one of
the most brilliant wizards of his generation, if he’d been born with two
copies of that gene, instead of zero…

Harry raised his hand and waved to them. He couldn’t speak. He couldn’t
speak at all.

They came over to him, not running, but at a steady, dignified walk;
that was how fast Professor Michael Verres-Evans walked, and Mrs Petunia
Evans-Verres wasn’t about to walk any faster.

The smile on his father’s face wasn’t very wide, but then his father
never was given to huge smiles; it was, at least, as wide as Harry had
ever seen it, wider than when a new grant came in, or when one of his
students got a position, and you couldn’t ask for a wider smile than
that.

Mum was blinking hard, and she was trying to smile but not doing a very
good job.

“So!” said his father as he came striding up. “Made any revolutionary
discoveries yet?”

Of course Dad thought he was joking.

It hadn’t hurt quite so much when his parents didn’t believe in him,
back when no-one else had believed in him either, back when Harry hadn’t
known how it felt to be taken seriously by people like Headmaster
Dumbledore and Professor Quirrell.

And that was when Harry realized that the Boy-Who-Lived only existed in
magical Britain, that there wasn’t any such person in Muggle London,
just a cute little eleven-year-old boy going home for Christmas.

“Excuse me,” Harry said, his voice trembling, “I’m going to break down
and cry now, it doesn’t mean there was anything wrong at school.”

Harry started to move forward, and then stopped, torn between hugging
his father and hugging his mother, he didn’t want either one to feel
slighted or that Harry loved them more than the other—

“You,” said his father, “are a very silly boy, Mr Verres,” and he gently
took Harry by the shoulders and pushed him into the arms of his mother,
who was kneeling down, tears already streaking her cheek.

“Hello, Mum,” Harry said with his voice wavering, “I’m back.” And he
hugged her, amid the noisy mechanical sounds and the smell of burned
gasoline; and Harry started crying, because he knew that nothing could
go back, least of all him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sky was completely dark and stars were coming out by the time they
negotiated the Christmas traffic to the university town that was Oxford,
and parked in the driveway of the small, dingy-looking old house that
their family used to keep the rain off their books.

As they walked up the brief stretch of pavement leading to the front
door, they passed a series of flower-pots holding small, dim electric
lights (dim since they had to recharge themselves off solar power during
the day), and the lights lit up just as they passed. The hard part had
been finding motion sensors that were waterproof and triggered at just
the right distance…

In Hogwarts there were real torches like that.

And then the front door opened and Harry stepped into their living-room,
blinking hard.

Every inch of wall space is covered by a bookcase. Each bookcase has six
shelves, going almost to the ceiling. Some bookshelves are stacked to
the brim with hardback books: science, maths, history, and everything
else. Other shelves have two layers of paperback science fiction, with
the back layer of books propped up on old tissue boxes or two-by-fours,
so that you can see the back layer of books above the books in front.
And it still isn’t enough. Books are overflowing onto the tables and the
sofas and making little heaps under the windows…

The Verres household was just as he’d left it, only with more books,
which was also just how he’d left it.

And a Christmas tree, naked and undecorated just two days before
Christmas Eve, which threw Harry briefly before he realized, with a warm
feeling blossoming in his chest, that of course his parents had waited.

“We took the bed out of your room to make room for more bookcases,” said
his father. “You can sleep in your trunk, right?”

“You can sleep in my trunk,” said Harry.

“That reminds me,” said his father. “What did they end up doing about
your sleep cycle?”

“Magic,” Harry said, making a beeline for the door that opened upon his
bedroom, just in case Dad wasn’t joking…

“That’s not an explanation!” said Professor Verres-Evans, just as Harry
shouted, “You used up all the open space on my bookcases?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had spent the 23rd of December shopping for Muggle things that he
couldn’t just Transfigure; his father had been busy and had said that
Harry would need to walk or take the bus, which had suited Harry just
fine. Some of the people at the hardware store had given Harry
questioning looks, but he’d said with an innocent voice that his father
was shopping nearby and was very busy and had sent him to get some
things (holding up a list in carefully adult-looking half-illegible
handwriting); and in the end, money was money.

They had all decorated the Christmas tree together, and Harry had put a
tiny dancing fairy on top (two Sickles, five Knuts at Gambol & Japes).

Gringotts had readily exchanged Galleons for paper money, but they
didn’t seem to have any simple way to turn larger quantities of gold
into tax-free, clean Muggle money in a numbered Swiss bank account. This
had rather spiked Harry’s plan to turn most of the money he’d
self-stolen into a sensible mix of 60% international index funds and 40%
Berkshire Hathaway. For the moment, Harry had diversified his assets a
little further by sneaking out late at night, invisible and Time-Turned,
and burying one hundred golden Galleons in the backyard. He’d always
always always wanted to do that anyway.

Some of December 24th had been spent with the Professor reading Harry’s
books and asking questions. Most of the experiments his father had
suggested were impractical, at least for the moment; of those remaining,
Harry had done many of them already. (“Yes, Dad, I checked what happened
if Hermione was given a changed pronunciation and she didn’t know
whether it was changed, that was the very first experiment I did, Dad!”)

The last question Harry’s father had asked, looking up from Magical
Draughts and Potions with an expression of bewildered disgust, was
whether it all made sense if you were a wizard; and Harry had answered
no.

Whereupon his father had declared that magic was unscientific.

Harry was still a little shocked at the idea of pointing to a section of
reality and calling it unscientific. Dad seemed to think that the
conflict between his intuitions and the universe meant that the universe
had a problem.

(Then again, there were lots of physicists who thought that quantum
mechanics was weird, instead of quantum mechanics being normal and them
being weird.)

Harry had shown his mother the healer’s kit he’d bought to keep in their
house, though most of the potions wouldn’t work on Dad. Mum had stared
at the kit in a way that made Harry ask whether Mum’s sister had ever
bought anything like that for Grandpa Edwin and Grandma Elaine. And when
Mum still hadn’t answered, Harry had said hastily that she must have
just never thought of it. And then, finally, he’d fled the room.

Lily Evans probably hadn’t thought of it, that was the sad thing. Harry
knew that other people had a tendency to not think about painful
subjects, in the same way they had a tendency not to deliberately rest
their hands on red-hot stove burners; and Harry was starting to suspect
that most Muggle-borns rapidly acquired a tendency to not think about
their family, who were all going to die before they reached their first
century anyway.

Not that Harry had any intention of letting that happen, of course.

And then it was late in the day on December 24th and they were driving
off for their Christmas Eve dinner.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The house was huge, not by Hogwarts standards, but certainly by the
standards of what you could get if your father was a distinguished
professor trying to live in Oxford. Two stories of brick gleaming in the
setting sun, with windows on top of windows and one tall window that
went up much further than glass should go, that was going to be one huge
living-room…

Harry took a deep breath, and rang the doorbell.

There was a distant call of “Honey, can you get it?”

This was followed by a slow patter of approaching steps.

And then the door opened to reveal a genial man, of fat and rosy cheeks
and thinning hair, in a blue button-down shirt straining slightly at the
seams.

“Mr Granger?” Harry’s father said briskly, before Harry could even
speak. “I’m Michael, and this is Petunia and our son Harry. The food’s
in the magical trunk,” and Dad made a vague gesture behind him—not quite
in the direction of the trunk, as it happened.

“Yes, please, come in,” said Leo Granger. He stepped forward and took
the wine bottle from the Professor’s outstretched hands, with a muttered
“Thank you,” and then stepped back and waved at the living-room. “Have a
seat. And,” his head turning down to address Harry, “all the toys are
downstairs in the basement, I’m sure Herm will be down shortly, it’s the
first door on your right,” and pointed toward a hallway.

Harry just looked at him for a moment, conscious that he was blocking
his parents from coming in.

“Toys?” said Harry in a bright, high-pitched voice, with his eyes wide.
“I love toys!”

There was an intake of breath from his mother behind him, and Harry
strode into the house, managing not to stomp too hard as he walked.

The living-room was every bit as large as it had looked from outside,
with a huge vaulted ceiling dangling a gigantic chandelier, and a
Christmas tree that must have been murder to manœuvre through the door.
The lower levels of the tree were thoroughly and carefully decorated in
neat patterns of red and green and gold, with a newfound sprinkling of
blue and bronze; the heights that only a grown-up could reach were
carelessly, randomly draped with strings of lights and wreaths of
tinsel. A hallway extended until it terminated in the cabinetry of a
kitchen, and wooden stairs with polished metal railings stretched up
toward a second floor.

“Gosh!” Harry said. “This is a big house! I hope I don’t get lost in
here!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Roberta Granger was feeling rather nervous as dinner approached. The
turkey and the roast, their own contributions to the common project,
were steadily cooking away in the oven; the other dishes were to be
brought by their guests, the Verres family, who had adopted a boy named
Harry. Who was known to the wizarding world as the Boy-Who-Lived. And
who was also the only boy that Hermione had ever called “cute”, or
noticed at all, really.

The Verreses had said that Hermione was the only child in Harry’s age
group whose existence their son had ever acknowledged in any way
whatsoever.

And it might’ve been jumping the gun just a little; but both couples had
a sneaking suspicion that wedding bells might be in the offing a few
years down the road.

So while Christmas Day would be spent, as always, with her husband’s
family, they’d decided to spend Christmas Eve meeting their daughter’s
possible future in-laws.

The doorbell rang while she was right in the middle of basting the
turkey, and she raised her voice and shouted, “Honey, can you get it?”

There was a brief groan of a chair and its occupant, and then there was
the sound of her husband’s heavy footsteps and the door swinging open.

“Mr Granger?” said an older man’s brisk voice. “I’m Michael, and this is
Petunia and our son Harry. The food’s in the magical trunk.”

“Yes, please, come in,” said her husband, followed by a muttered “Thank
you” that indicated some sort of present had been accepted, and “Have a
seat.” Then Leo’s voice altered to a tone of artificial enthusiasm, and
said, “And all the toys are downstairs in the basement, I’m sure Herm
will be down shortly, it’s the first door on your right.”

There was a brief pause.

Then a young boy’s bright voice said, “Toys? I love toys!”

There was the sound of footsteps entering the house, and then the same
bright voice said, “Gosh! This is a big house! I hope I don’t get lost
in here!”

Roberta closed up the oven, smiling. She’d been a bit worried about the
way Hermione’s letters had described the Boy-Who-Lived—though certainly
her daughter hadn’t said anything indicating that Harry Potter was
dangerous; nothing like the dark hints written in the books Roberta had
bought, supposedly for Hermione, during their trip to Diagon Alley. Her
daughter hadn’t said much at all, only that Harry talked like he came
out of a book, and Hermione was studying harder than she ever had in her
life just to stay ahead of him in class. But from the sound of it, Harry
Potter was an ordinary eleven-year-old boy.

She got to the front door just as her daughter came clattering
frantically down the stairs at a speed that didn’t look safe at all,
Hermione had claimed that witches were more resistant to falls but
Roberta wasn’t quite sure she believed that—

Roberta took in her first sight of Professor and Mrs Verres, who were
both looking rather nervous, just as the boy with the legendary scar on
his forehead turned to her daughter and said, now in a lower voice,
“Well met on this fairest of evenings, Miss Granger.” His hand stretched
back, as though offering his parents on a silver platter. “I present to
you my father, Professor Michael Verres-Evans, and my mother,
Mrs Petunia Evans-Verres.”

And as Roberta’s mouth was gaping open, the boy turned back to his
parents and said, now in that bright voice again, “Mum, Dad, this is
Hermione! She’s really smart!”

“Harry!” hissed her daughter. “Stop that!”

The boy swivelled again to regard Hermione. “I’m afraid, Miss Granger,”
the boy said gravely, “that you and I have been exiled to the
labyrinthine recesses of the basement. Let us leave them to their adult
conversations, which would no doubt soar far above our own childish
intellects, and resume our ongoing discussion of the implications of
Humean projectivism for Transfiguration.”

“Excuse us, please,” said her daughter in a very firm tone, and grabbed
the boy by his left sleeve, and dragged him into the hallway—Roberta
swivelled helplessly to track them as they went past her, the boy gave
her a cheery wave—and then Hermione pulled the boy into the basement
access and slammed the door behind her.

“I, ah, I apologize for…” said Mrs Verres in a faltering voice.

“I’m sorry,” said the Professor, smiling fondly, “Harry can be a bit
touchy about that sort of thing. But I expect he’s right about us not
being interested in their conversation.”

Is he dangerous? Roberta wanted to ask, but she kept her silence and
tried to think of subtler questions. Her husband beside her was
chuckling, as if he’d found what they’d just seen funny, rather than
frightening.

The most terrible Dark Lord in history had tried to kill that boy, and
the burnt husk of his body had been found next to the crib.

Her possible future son-in-law.

Roberta had been increasingly apprehensive about giving her daughter
over to witchcraft—especially after she’d read the books, put the dates
together, and realized that her magical mother had probably been killed
at the height of Grindelwald’s terror, not died giving birth to her as
her father had always claimed. But Professor McGonagall had made other
visits after her first trip, to “see how Miss Granger is doing”; and
Roberta couldn’t help but think that if Hermione said her parents were
being troublesome about her witching career, something would be done to
fix them…

Roberta put her best smile on her face, and did what she could to spread
some pretended Christmas cheer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dining-room table was much longer than six people—er, four people
and two children—really needed, but all of it was draped with a
tablecloth of fine white linen, and the dishes had been needlessly
transferred to fancy serving plates, which at least were of stainless
steel rather than real silver.

Harry was having a bit of trouble concentrating on the turkey.

The conversation had turned to Hogwarts, naturally; and it’d been
obvious to Harry that his parents were hoping that Hermione would trip
up and say more about Harry’s school life than Harry had been telling
them. And either Hermione had realized this, or she was just
automatically steering clear of anything that might prove troublesome.

So Harry was fine.

But unfortunately Harry had made the mistake of owling his parents with
all sorts of facts about Hermione that she hadn’t told her own parents.

Like that she was general of an army in their after-school activities.

Hermione’s mother had looked very alarmed, and Harry had quickly
interrupted and done his best to explain that all the spells were
stunners, Professor Quirrell was always watching, and the existence of
magical healing meant that lots of things were much less dangerous than
they sounded, at which point Hermione had kicked him hard under the
table. Thankfully Harry’s father, who Harry had to admit was better than
him at some things, had announced with firm professorial authority that
he hadn’t worried at all, since he couldn’t imagine children being
allowed to do it if it was dangerous.

That wasn’t why Harry was having trouble enjoying dinner, though.

…the problem with feeling sorry for yourself was that it never took any
time at all to find someone else who had it worse.

Leo Granger had asked, at one point, whether that nice teacher who’d
seemed to like Hermione, Professor McGonagall, was awarding her lots of
points in school.

Hermione had said yes, with an apparently genuine smile.

Harry had managed, with some effort, to stop himself from icily pointing
out that Professor McGonagall would never show favouritism to any
Hogwarts student, and that Hermione was getting lots of points because
she’d earned every, single, one.

At another point, Leo Granger had offered the table his opinion that
Hermione was very smart and could have gone to medical school and become
a dentist, if not for the whole witch business.

Hermione had smiled again, and a quick glance had prevented Harry from
suggesting Hermione might also have been an internationally famous
scientist, and asking whether that thought would’ve occurred to the
Grangers if they’d had a son instead of a daughter, or if it was
unacceptable either way for their offspring to do better than them.

But Harry was rapidly reaching his boiling point.

And becoming a lot more appreciative of the fact that his own father had
always done everything he could to support Harry’s development as a
prodigy and always encouraged him to reach higher and never belittled a
single one of his accomplishments, even if a child prodigy was still
just a child. Was this the sort of household he could have ended up in,
if Mum had married Vernon Dursley?

Harry was doing what he could, though.

“And she’s really beating you in all your classes except broomstick
riding and Transfiguration?” said Professor Michael Verres-Evans.

“Yes,” Harry said with forced calm, as he cut himself another bite of
Christmas Eve turkey. “By solid margins, in most of them.” There were
other circumstances under which Harry would have been more reluctant to
admit that, which was why he hadn’t got around to telling his father
until now.

“Hermione has always been quite good in school,” said Leo Granger in a
satisfied tone.

“Harry competes at the national level!” said Professor Michael
Verres-Evans.

“Dear!” said Petunia.

Hermione was giggling, and that wasn’t making Harry feel any better
about her situation. It didn’t seem to bother Hermione and that bothered
Harry.

“I’m not embarrassed to lose to her, Dad,” Harry said. Right at this
moment he wasn’t. “Did I mention that she memorized all her schoolbooks
before the first day of class? And yes, I tested it.”

“Is that, ah, usual for her?” Professor Verres-Evans said to the
Grangers.

“Oh, yes, Hermione’s always memorizing things,” said Roberta Granger
with a cheerful smile. “She knows every recipe in all my cookbooks by
heart. I miss her every time I make dinner.”

Judging by the look on his father’s face, Dad was feeling at least some
of what Harry felt.

“Don’t worry, Dad,” Harry said, “she’s getting all the advanced material
she can take, now. Her teachers at Hogwarts know she’s smart, unlike her
parents!”

His voice had risen on the last three words, and even as all faces
turned to stare at him and Hermione kicked him again, Harry knew that
he’d blown it, but it was too much, just way too much.

“Of course we know she’s smart,” said Leo Granger, starting to look
offended at the child who’d had the temerity to raise his voice at their
dinner table.

“You don’t have the tiniest idea,” said Harry, the ice now leaking into
his voice. “You think she reads a lot of books and it’s cute, right? You
see a perfect report card and you think it’s good that she’s doing well
in class. Your daughter is the most talented witch of her generation and
the brightest star of Hogwarts, and some day, Mr and Mrs Granger, the
fact that you were her parents will be the only reason that history
remembers you!”

Hermione, who had calmly got up from her seat and walked around the
table, chose that moment to grab Harry’s shirt by the shoulder and pull
him out of his chair. Harry let himself be pulled, but as Hermione
dragged him away, he said, raising his voice even louder, “It is
entirely possible that in a thousand years, the fact that Hermione
Granger’s parents were dentists will be the only reason anyone remembers
dentistry!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Roberta stared at where her daughter had just dragged the Boy-Who-Lived
out of the room with a patient look upon her young face.

“I’m terribly sorry,” said Professor Verres with an amused smile. “But
please don’t worry, Harry always talks like that. Aren’t they just like
a married couple already?”

The frightening thing was that they were.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had been expecting a rather severe lecture from Hermione.

But after Hermione pulled them into the basement access and closed the
door behind them, she’d turned around—

—and was smiling, genuinely so far as Harry could tell.

“Please don’t, Harry,” she said in a soft voice. “Even though it’s very
nice of you. Everything’s fine.”

Harry just looked at her. “How can you stand it?” he said. He had to
keep his voice quiet, they didn’t want the parents to hear, but it rose
in pitch if not in volume. “How can you stand it?”

Hermione shrugged, and said, “Because that’s the way parents should be?”

“No,” Harry said, his voice low and intense, “it’s not, my father never
puts me down—well, he does, but never like that—”

Hermione held up a single finger, and Harry waited, watching her search
for words. It took her a while before she said, “Harry… Professor
McGonagall and Professor Flitwick like me because I’m the most talented
witch of my generation and the brightest star of Hogwarts. And Mum and
Dad don’t know that, and you’ll never be able to tell them, but they
love me anyway. Which means that everything is just the way it should
be, at Hogwarts and at home. And since they’re my parents, Mr Potter,
you don’t get to argue.” She was once again smiling her mysterious smile
from dinner time, and looking at Harry very fondly. “Is that clear,
Mr Potter?”

Harry nodded tightly.

“Good,” said Hermione, and leaned over and kissed him on the cheek.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The conversation had only just started again when a distant high-pitched
yelp floated back to them,

“Hey! No kissing!”

The two fathers burst out in laughter just as the two mothers rose up
from their chairs with identical looks of horror and dashed toward the
basement.

When the children had been brought back, Hermione was saying in an icy
tone that she was never going to kiss Harry ever again, and Harry was
saying in an outraged voice that the Sun would burn down to a cold dead
cinder before he let her get close enough to try.

Which meant that everything was just the way it should be, and they all
sat back down again to finish their Christmas dinner.

37. Interlude: Crossing the Boundary

IT was almost midnight.

Staying up late was simple enough for Harry. He just hadn’t used the
Time-Turner. Harry followed a tradition of timing his sleep cycle to
make sure he was awake for when Christmas Eve turned into Christmas Day;
because while he’d never been young enough to believe in Santa Claus,
he’d once been young enough to doubt.

It would have been nice if there had been a mysterious figure who
entered your house in the night and brought you presents…

A chill went down Harry’s spine then.

An intimation of something dreadful approaching.

A creeping terror.

A sense of doom.

Harry sat bolt upright in bed.

He looked at the window.

“Professor Quirrell?” Harry shrieked very quietly.

Professor Quirrell made a slight lifting gesture, and Harry’s window
seemed to fold into its frame. At once a cold gust of winter blew into
the room through the gap, along with a scant few flakes of snow from a
sky spotted with grey night-clouds, amid the black and stars.

“Fear not, Mr Potter,” said the Defence Professor in a normal voice. “I
have Charmed your parents asleep; they shall not wake until I have
departed.”

“No-one’s supposed to know where I am!” said Harry, still keeping the
shriek quiet. “Even owls are supposed to deliver my mail to Hogwarts,
not here!” Harry had agreed to that willingly; it would be silly if a
Death Eater could win the whole war at any time just by owling him a
magically triggered hand grenade.

Professor Quirrell was grinning, from where he stood in the backyard
beyond the window. “Oh, I shouldn’t worry, Mr Potter. You are well
protected against locating Charms, and no blood purist is likely to
think of consulting a phone book.” His grin grew wider. “And it did take
considerable effort to cross the wards that the Headmaster put around
this house—though of course anyone who knew your address could simply
wait outside and attack you the next time you left.”

Harry stared at Professor Quirrell for a while. “What are you doing
here?” Harry said finally.

The smile left Professor Quirrell’s face. “I’ve come to apologize,
Mr Potter,” the Defence Professor said quietly. “I should not have
spoken to you so harshly as I—”

“Don’t,” Harry said. He looked down at the blanket that he was clutching
around his pyjamas. “Just don’t.”

“Have I offended you that much?” said Professor Quirrell’s quiet voice.

“No,” Harry said. “But you will if you apologize.”

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell, and in an instant his voice grew
stern. “Then if I am to treat you as an equal, Mr Potter, I should say
that you have gravely violated the etiquette that holds between friendly
Slytherins. If you are not currently playing the game against someone,
you must not meddle in their plans like that, not without asking them
before. For you do not know what their true design may be, nor what
stakes they may lose. It would mark you as their enemy, Mr Potter.”

“I’m sorry,” Harry said, in just the same quiet tone that Professor
Quirrell had used.

“Apology accepted,” said Professor Quirrell.

“But,” Harry said, still quietly, “you and I really must speak further
on politics, at some point.”

Professor Quirrell sighed.

“I know you dislike condescension, Mr Potter—”

That was a bit of an understatement.

“But it would be even more condescending,” said Professor Quirrell, “if
I were not to state it clearly. You are missing some life experience,
Mr Potter.”

“And does everyone who has sufficient life experience agree with you,
then?” said Harry calmly.

“What good is life experience to someone who plays Quidditch?” said
Professor Quirrell, and shrugged. “I think you will change your mind in
time, after every trust you place has failed you, and you have become
cynical.”

The Defence Professor said it as though it were the most ordinary
statement in the world, framed against the black and the stars and the
cloud-spotted sky, as one or two tiny snowflakes blew past him in the
biting winter air.

“That reminds me,” said Harry. “Merry Christmas.”

“I suppose,” said Professor Quirrell. “After all, if it is not an
apology, then it must be a Christmas gift. The very first one I have
ever given, in fact.”

Harry hadn’t even started yet on learning Latin so he could read the
experimental diary of Roger Bacon; and he hardly dared open his mouth to
ask.

“Put on your winter coat,” said Professor Quirrell, “or take a warming
potion if you have one; and meet me outside, under the stars. I shall
see if I can maintain it a little longer this time.”

It took Harry a moment to process the words, and then he was dashing for
the wardrobe.

Professor Quirrell kept the spell of starlight going for more than an
hour, though the Defence Professor’s face grew strained, and he had to
sit down after a while. Harry protested only once, and was shushed.

They crossed the boundary from Christmas Eve to Christmas Day within
that timeless void where Earthly rotations meant nothing, the one true
everlasting Silent Night.

And just as promised, Harry’s parents slept soundly all through it,
until Harry was safely back in his room, and the Defence Professor had
gone.

3. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and the Shadows of Death

38. The Cardinal Sin

BRIGHT the sun, bright the air, bright the students and bright their
parents, clean the paved ground of Platform 9.75, the winter Sun hanging
low in the sky at 9:45 a.m. in the morning on January 5th, 1992. Some of
the younger students wore scarves and mittens, but most simply wore
their robes; they were wizards, after all.

After Harry had moved away from the landing platform, he took off his
scarf and coat, opened a compartment of his trunk, and stowed away his
winter things.

For a long moment, he stood there letting the January air bite at him,
just to see what it was like.

Harry took out his wizards’ robes, shrugged them on.

And finally, Harry drew his wand; and he couldn’t help thinking of the
parents he’d only just kissed goodbye, of the world whose problems he
was leaving behind…

With a strange feeling of guilt for the unavoidable, Harry said,
“Thermos.”

The warmth flowed through him.

And the Boy-Who-Lived was back.

Harry yawned and stretched, feeling more lethargic than anything else at
the conclusion of his holiday. He didn’t feel like reading his
textbooks, or even any serious science fiction, this morning; what he
needed was something completely frivolous to occupy his attention…

Well, that wouldn’t be hard to come by, if he was willing to part with
four Knuts.

Besides, if the Daily Prophet was corrupt and the Quibbler was the only
competing newspaper, there might be some suppressed real news in there.

Harry trudged back over to the same news-stand from last time, wondering
if the Quibbler could top the headline he’d seen before.

The vendor started to smile as Harry approached, and then the man’s face
suddenly changed, as he caught sight of the scar.

“Harry Potter?” gasped the vendor.

“No, Mr Durian,” said Harry, eyes dipping briefly to the man’s name-tag,
“just an amazing imitation—”

And then Harry’s voice stopped in his throat, as he caught sight of the
top fold of the Quibbler.

Sloshed Seer Spills Secrets:
Dark Lord To Return,

For just an instant, Harry tried to clamp down on his face, before
realizing that not being shocked could be just as revealing, in a sense—

“Excuse me,” Harry said. His voice sounded a little alarmed, and he
didn’t even know whether that was too revealing, or just what his normal
reaction would be if he didn’t know anything. He’d spent too much time
around Slytherins, he was forgetting how to keep secrets from ordinary
people. Four Knuts hit the counter. “One copy of the Quibbler, please.”

“Oh, no worries, Mr Potter!” said the vendor hastily, waving his hands.
“It’s—never mind, just—”

A newspaper flew through the air and hit Harry’s fingers, and he
unfolded it.

Sloshed Seer Spills Secrets:
Dark Lord To Return,
Wed Draco Malfoy

“It’s free,” said the vendor, “for you, I mean—”

“No,” Harry said, “I was going to buy one anyway.”

The vendor took the coins, and Harry read on.

“Gosh,” Harry said half a minute later, “you get a seer smashed on six
slugs of Scotch and she spills all sorts of secret stuff. I mean, who’d
have thought that Sirius Black and Peter Pettigrew were secretly the
same person?”

“Not me,” said the vendor.

“They’ve even got a picture of the two of them together, so we know who
it is that’s secretly the same person.”

“Yup,” said the vendor. “Pretty clever disguise, innit?”

“And I’m secretly sixty-five years old.”

“You don’t look half that,” the vendor said amiably.

“And I’m betrothed to Hermione Granger, and Bellatrix Black, and Luna
Lovegood, and oh yes, Draco Malfoy too…”

“Goin’ ter be one interesting wedding,” said the vendor.

Harry looked up from the newspaper, and said in a pleasant voice, “You
know, I heard at first that Luna Lovegood was insane, and I wondered if
she really was, or if she was just making stuff up and giggling to
herself the whole time. Then when I read my second Quibbler headline, I
decided that she couldn’t be insane, I mean, it can’t be easy to make
this stuff up, you couldn’t do it by accident. And now do you know what
I think? I think she must be mad after all. When ordinary people try to
make stuff up, it doesn’t come out like this. Something’s got to go
really wrong with the inside of your head before this is what comes out
when you start making stuff up!”

The vendor stared at Harry.

“Seriously,” said Harry. “Who reads this stuff?”

“You,” said the vendor.

Harry wandered off to read his newspaper.

He didn’t sit at the same nearby table he’d sat down at with Draco, the
first time he’d prepared to board this train. That seemed like tempting
history to repeat itself.

It wasn’t just that his first term at Hogwarts had been, judging by the
Quibbler, fifty-four years long. It was that, in Harry’s humble opinion,
his life did not need any new threads of complexity.

So Harry found a small iron chair somewhere else, distant from the main
crowd and the occasional muffled cracks of parents Apparating in with
their children, and sat down and read the Quibbler to see if it
contained any suppressed news.

And besides the obvious craziness (heaven help them all if any of that
was real) there was a good deal of snide romantic gossip; but nothing
that would really be all that important if it was true.

Harry was just reading about the Ministry’s proposed marriage law, to
ban all marriages, when—

“Harry Potter,” said a silken voice that sent a shock of adrenaline
jolting through Harry’s blood.

Harry looked up.

“Lucius Malfoy,” Harry said, his voice weary. Next time he was going to
do the smart thing, and wait outside in the Muggle part of King’s Cross
until 10:55 a.m.

Lucius inclined his head courteously, sending his long white hair
drifting over his shoulders. The man was still carrying that same cane,
lacquered in black with a silver snake’s head for its handle; and
something about his grip silently said this is a weapon of deadly power,
not I am feeble and leaning on this. His face was expressionless.

Two men flanked him, their eyes continuously scanning, their wands
already gripped low in their hands. The two of them moved like a single
organism with four legs and four arms, the senior Crabbe-and-Goyle, and
Harry thought he could guess which was which, but then it didn’t really
matter. They were merely Lucius’s appendages, as certainly as if they’d
been the two rightmost toes on his left foot.

“I apologize for disturbing you, Mr Potter,” said the smooth, silken
voice. “But you have answered none of my owls; and this, I thought,
might be my only opportunity to meet you.”

“I have received none of your owls,” Harry said calmly. “Dumbledore
intercepted them, I presume. But I would not have answered them if I
had, except through Draco. For me to deal with you directly, without
Draco’s knowledge, would trespass on our friendship.”

Please go away, please go away…

The grey eyes glittered at him. “Is that your pose, then…” said the
senior Malfoy. “Well. I shall play along a little. What was your purpose
in manœuvring your good friend, my son, into a public alliance with that
girl?”

“Oh,” Harry said lightly, “that’s obvious, right? Draco’s working with
Granger will make him realize that Muggle-borns are human after all.
Bwa. Ha. Ha.”

A thin trace of a smile moved over Lucius’s lips. “Yes, that does sound
like one of Dumbledore’s plans. Which it is not.”

“Indeed,” said Harry. “It is part of my game with Draco, and no work of
Dumbledore’s, and that is all I will say.”

“Let us dispense with games,” said the senior Malfoy, the grey eyes
suddenly hardening. “If my suspicions are true, you would hardly do
Dumbledore’s bidding in any case, Mr Potter.”

There was a slight pause.

“So you know,” Harry said, his voice cold. “Tell me. At which point,
exactly, did you realize?”

“When I read your response to Professor Quirrell’s little speech,” said
the white-haired man, and chuckled grimly. “I was puzzled, at first, for
it seemed not in your own interest; it took me days to understand whose
interest was being served, and then it all finally became clear. And it
is also obvious that you are weak, in some ways if not others.”

“Very clever of you,” said Harry, still cold. “But perhaps you mistake
my interests.”

“Perhaps I do.” A hint of steel came into the silken voice. “Indeed,
that is precisely what I fear. You are playing strange games with my
son, to a purpose I cannot guess. That is not a friendly act, and you
cannot but expect me to be concerned!”

Lucius was leaning upon his cane with both hands now, and both those
hands white, and his bodyguards had suddenly tensed.

Some instinct within Harry claimed that it would be a very bad idea to
show his fear, to let Lucius see that he could be intimidated. They were
in a public train station anyway—

“I find it interesting,” Harry said, putting steel into his own voice,
“that you think I could benefit from doing Draco harm. But it is
irrelevant, Lucius. He is my friend, and I do not betray my friends.”

“What?” whispered Lucius. His face showed sheer shock.

Then—

“Company,” said one of the minions, and Harry thought, from the voice,
that it must be the senior Crabbe.

Lucius straightened and turned, then let out a hiss of disapproval.

Neville was approaching, looking scared but determined, in tow behind a
tall woman who didn’t look scared at all.

“Madam Longbottom,” Lucius said icily.

“Mr Malfoy,” returned the woman with equal ice. “Are you being an
annoyance to our Harry Potter?”

The bark of laughter that came from Lucius seemed strangely bitter. “Oh,
I rather think not. Come to protect him from me, have you?” The
white-haired head shifted toward Neville. “And this would be Mr Potter’s
loyal lieutenant, the last scion of Longbottom, Neville, self-styled of
Chaos. How strangely does the world turn. Sometimes I think it must all
be mad.”

Harry had no idea at all what to say to that, and Neville looked
confused, and frightened.

“I doubt it is the world that is mad,” said Madam Longbottom. Her voice
took on a gloating tone. “You seem in a poor mood, Mr Malfoy. Did the
speech of our dear Professor Quirrell cost you a few allies?”

“It was a clever enough slander of my abilities,” Lucius said coldly,
“though only effective upon the fools who believe that I was truly a
Death Eater.”

“What?” blurted Neville.

“I was under the Imperius, young man,” said Lucius, now sounding tired.
“The Dark Lord could hardly have begun recruiting among pureblood
families without the support of House Malfoy. I demurred, and he simply
made sure of me. His own Death Eaters did not know it until afterwards,
hence the false Mark I bear; though since I did not truly consent, it
does not bind me. Some of the Death Eaters still believe I was foremost
among their number, and for the peace of this nation I let them believe
it, to keep them controlled. But I was not such a fool as to support
that ill-fated adventurer of my own choice—”

“Ignore him,” Madam Longbottom said, the instruction addressed to Harry
as well as Neville. “He must spend the rest of his life pretending, for
fear of your testimony under Veritaserum.” Said with malicious
satisfaction.

Lucius turned his back on her dismissively, and faced Harry again. “Will
you request this harridan to depart, Mr Potter?”

“I think not,” said Harry in a dry voice. “I prefer to deal with the
part of House Malfoy that’s my own age.”

There was a long pause, then. The grey eyes searched him.

“Of course…” said Lucius slowly. “I do feel the fool now. This whole
time you were just pretending to have no idea what we were talking
about.”

Harry met the gaze, and said nothing.

Lucius raised his cane a few centimetres and struck it hard on the
ground.

The world vanished in a pale haze, all sounds went quiet, there was
nothing in the universe but Harry and Lucius Malfoy and the snake-headed
cane.

“My son is my heart,” said the senior Malfoy, “the last worthwhile thing
I have left in this world, and this I say to you in a spirit of
friendship: if he were to come to harm, I would give my life over to
vengeance. But so long as my son does not come to harm, I wish you the
best of luck in your endeavours. And as you have asked nothing more of
me, I will ask nothing more of you.”

Then the pale haze vanished, showing an outraged Madam Longbottom being
blocked from moving forward by the senior Crabbe; her wand was in her
hand, now.

“How dare you!” she hissed.

Lucius’s dark robes swirled around him, and his white hair, as he turned
to the senior Goyle. “We return to Malfoy Manor.”

There were three pops of Apparition, and they were gone.

A silence followed.

“Dear heavens,” said Madam Longbottom. “What was that about?”

Harry shrugged helplessly. Then he looked at Neville.

There was sweat on Neville’s forehead.

“Thank you very much, Neville,” said Harry. “Your help was greatly
appreciated, Neville. And now, Neville, I think you should sit down.”

“Yes, General,” said Neville, and instead of coming over to one of the
other chairs near Harry, he semi-collapsed into a sitting position on
the pavement.

“You have wrought many changes in my grandson,” said Madam Longbottom.
“I approve of some, but not others.”

“Send me the list of which is which,” said Harry. “I’ll see what I can
do.”

Neville groaned, but said nothing.

Madam Longbottom gave a chuckle. “I shall, young man, thank you.” Her
voice lowered. “Mr Potter… the speech given by Professor Quirrell is
something our nation has long needed to hear. I cannot say as much of
your comment on it.”

“I will take your opinion under advisement,” Harry said mildly.

“I dearly hope that you do,” said Madam Longbottom, and turned back to
her grandson. “Do I still need to—”

“It’s okay for you to go, Granma,” said Neville. “I’ll be fine on my
own, this time.”

“Now that I approve of,” she said, and popped and vanished like a soap
bubble.

The two boys sat quietly for a moment.

Neville spoke first, his voice weary. “You’re going to try to fix all
the changes she approves of, right?”

“Not all of them,” Harry said innocently. “I just want to make sure I’m
not corrupting you.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco looked very worried. His head kept darting around, despite the
fact that Draco had insisted on them going down into Harry’s trunk, and
using a true Quieting Charm and not just the sound-blurring barrier.

“What did you say to Father?” blurted Draco, the moment the Quieting
Charm went up and the sounds of Platform 9¾ vanished.

“I… look, can you tell me what he said to you, before he dropped you
off?” said Harry.

“That I should tell him right away if you seemed to be threatening me,”
said Draco. “That I should tell him right away if there was anything I
was doing that could pose a threat to you! Father thinks you’re
dangerous, Harry, whatever you said to him today it scared him! It’s not
a good idea to scare Father!”

Oh, hell…

“What did you talk about?” demanded Draco.

Harry leaned back wearily in the small folding chair that sat at the
bottom of his trunk’s cavern. “You know, Draco, just as the fundamental
question of rationality is ‘What do I think I know and how do I think I
know it?’, there’s also a cardinal sin, a way of thinking that’s the
opposite of that. Like the ancient Greek philosophers. They had no clue
what was going on, so they’d go around saying things like ‘All is water’
or ‘All is fire’, and they never asked themselves, ‘Wait a minute, even
if everything is water, how could I possibly know that?’ They didn’t ask
themselves if they had evidence which discriminated that possibility
from all the other possibilities you could imagine, evidence they’d be
very unlikely to encounter if the theory wasn’t true—”

“Harry,” Draco said, his voice strained, “What did you talk about with
Father?”

“I don’t know, actually,” said Harry, “so it’s very important that I not
just make stuff up—”

Harry had never heard Draco shriek in horror in quite that high a pitch
before.

39. Pretending to be Wise, Part I

WHISTLE. Tick. Bzzzt. Ding. Glorp. Pop. Splat. Chime. Toot. Puff.
Tinkle. Bubble. Beep. Thud. Crackle. Whoosh. Hiss. Pffft. Whirr.

Professor Flitwick had silently passed Harry a folded parchment during
Charms class that Monday, and the note had said that Harry was to visit
the Headmaster at his convenience and in such fashion that no-one else
would notice, especially not Draco Malfoy or Professor Quirrell. His
one-time password for the gargoyle would be “squeamish ossifrage”. This
had been accompanied by a remarkably artistic ink drawing of Professor
Flitwick staring at him sternly, the eyes of which occasionally blinked;
and at the bottom of the note, underlined three times, was the phrase
“DON’T GET INTO TROUBLE”.

And so Harry had finished up Transfiguration class, and studied with
Hermione, and eaten dinner, and spoken with his lieutenants, and
finally, when the clock struck nine, turned himself invisible and
dropped back to 6 p.m. and wearily trudged off toward the gargoyle, the
turning spiral stairs, the wooden door, the room full of little fiddly
things, and the silver-bearded figure of the Headmaster.

This time, Dumbledore looked quite serious, the customary smile absent;
and he was dressed in pyjamas of a darker and more sober purple than
usual.

“Thank you for coming, Harry,” said the Headmaster. The old wizard rose
from his throne, began to slowly pace through the room and the strange
devices. “First, do you have with you the notes of yesterday’s encounter
with Lucius Malfoy?”

“Notes?” blurted Harry.

“Surely you wrote it down…” said the old wizard, and his voice trailed
off.

Harry felt rather embarrassed. Yes, if you’d just fumbled through a
mysterious conversation full of significant hints you didn’t understand,
the bloody obvious thing to do would be to write it all down immediately
afterwards, before the memory faded, so you could try to figure it out
later.

“All right,” said the Headmaster, “from memory then.”

Harry sheepishly recited as best he could, and got almost halfway
through before he realized that it wasn’t smart to just go around
telling the possibly-crazy Headmaster everything, at least not without
thinking about it first, but then Lucius was definitely a bad guy and
Dumbledore’s opponent so it probably was a good idea to tell him, and
Harry had already started talking and it was too late to try and
calculate things out now…

Harry finished his recollections honestly.

Dumbledore’s face had grown more remote as Harry went on, and at the end
there was a look of ancientness about him, a sternness in the air.

“Well,” said Dumbledore. “I suggest you take the best of care that the
heir of Malfoy does not come to harm, then. And I will do the same.” The
Headmaster was frowning, his fingers drumming soundlessly through the
inky black surface of a plate inscribed with the word Leliel. “And I
think it would be most extremely wise for you to avoid all interaction
with Lord Malfoy henceforth.”

“Did you intercept owls from him to me?” said Harry.

The Headmaster gazed at Harry for a long moment, then reluctantly
nodded.

For some reason Harry wasn’t feeling as outraged as he should have been.
Maybe it was just that Harry was finding it very easy to sympathize with
the Headmaster’s point of view right now. Even Harry could understand
why Dumbledore wouldn’t want him to interact with Lucius Malfoy; it
didn’t seem like an evil deed.

Not like the Headmaster blackmailing Zabini… for which they had only
Zabini’s word, and Zabini was wildly untrustworthy, in fact it was hard
to see why Zabini wouldn’t just tell the story that got him the most
sympathy from Professor Quirrell…

“How about if, instead of protesting, I say that I understand your point
of view,” said Harry, “and you go on intercepting my owls, but you tell
me who from?”

“I have intercepted a great many owls to you, I am afraid,” Dumbledore
said soberly. “You are a celebrity, Harry, and you would receive dozens
of letters a day, some from far outside this country, did I not turn
them back.”

“That,” Harry said, now starting to feel a bit of indignation, “seems
like going a little too far—”

“Many of those letters,” the old wizard said quietly, “will be asking
you for things you cannot give. I have not read them, of course, only
turned them back to their senders undelivered. But I know, for I receive
them too. And you are too young, Harry, to have your heart broken six
times before breakfast each morning.”

Harry looked down at his shoes. He should insist on reading the letters
and judging for himself, but… there was a small voice of common sense
inside him, and it was screaming very loudly right now.

“Thank you,” Harry muttered.

“The other reason I asked you here,” said the old wizard, “was that I
wished to consult your unique genius.”

“Transfiguration?” said Harry, surprised and flattered.

“No, not that unique genius,” said Dumbledore. “Tell me, Harry, what
evil could you accomplish if a Dementor were allowed onto the grounds of
Hogwarts?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It developed that Professor Quirrell had asked, or rather demanded, that
his students test their skills against an actual Dementor after they
learned the words and gestures to the Patronus Charm.

“Professor Quirrell is unable to cast the Patronus Charm himself,” said
Dumbledore, as he paced slowly through the devices. “Which is never a
good sign. But then, he volunteered that fact to me in the course of
demanding that outside instructors be brought in to teach the Patronus
Charm to every student who wished to learn; he offered to pay the
expense himself, if I would not. This impressed me greatly. But now he
insists on bringing in a Dementor—”

“Headmaster,” Harry said quietly, “Professor Quirrell believes very
strongly in live-fire tests under realistic combat conditions. Wanting
to bring in an actual Dementor is completely in character for him.”

Now the Headmaster was giving Harry a strange look.

“In character?” said the old wizard.

“I mean,” said Harry, “it’s entirely consistent with the way Professor
Quirrell usually acts…” Harry trailed off. Why had he put it that way?

The Headmaster nodded. “So you have the same sense I do; that it is an
excuse. A very reasonable excuse, to be sure; more so than you may
realize. Often, wizards seemingly unable to cast a Patronus Charm will
succeed in the presence of an actual Dementor, going from not a single
flicker of light to a full corporeal Patronus. Why this should be,
no-one knows; but it is so.”

Harry frowned. “Then I really don’t see why you’re suspicious—”

The Headmaster spread his hands as though in helplessness. “Harry, the
Defence Professor has asked me to pass the darkest of all creatures
through the gates of Hogwarts. I must be suspicious.” The Headmaster
sighed. “And yet the Dementor will be guarded, warded, in a mighty cage,
I will be there myself to watch it at all times—I cannot think of what
ill could be done. But perhaps I am merely unable to see it. And so I am
asking you.”

Harry stared at the Headmaster with his mouth open. He was so shocked he
couldn’t even feel flattered.

“Me?” said Harry.

“Yes,” said Dumbledore, smiling slightly. “I try my best to anticipate
my foes, to encompass their wicked minds and predict their evil
thoughts. But I would never have imagined sharpening a Hufflepuff’s
bones into weapons.”

Was Harry ever going to live that down?

“Headmaster,” Harry said wearily, “I know it doesn’t sound good, but in
all seriousness: I’m not evil, I’m just very creative—”

“I did not say that you were evil,” Dumbledore said seriously. “There
are those who say that to comprehend evil is to become evil; but they
are merely pretending to be wise. Rather it is evil which does not know
love, and dares not imagine love, and cannot ever understand love
without ceasing to be evil. And I suspect that you can imagine your way
into the minds of Dark Wizards better than I ever could, while still
knowing love yourself. So, Harry.” The Headmaster’s eyes were intent.
“If you stood in Professor Quirrell’s shoes, what misdeeds could you
accomplish after you tricked me into allowing a Dementor onto the
grounds of Hogwarts?”

“Hold on,” said Harry, and in something of a daze trudged over to the
chair in front of the Headmaster’s desk, and sat down. It was a large
and comfortable chair this time, not a wooden stool, and Harry could
feel himself enveloped as he sank into it.

Dumbledore was asking him to outwit Professor Quirrell.

Point one: Harry was rather fonder of Professor Quirrell than of
Dumbledore.

Point two: The hypothesis was that the Defence Professor was planning to
do something evil, and in that subjunctive case, Harry ought to be
helping the Headmaster prevent it.

Point three…

“Headmaster,” Harry said, “if Professor Quirrell is up to something, I’m
not sure I can outwit him. He’s got a lot more experience than I do.”

The old wizard shook his head, somehow managing to appear very solemn
despite his smile. “You underestimate yourself.”

That was the first time anyone had ever said that to Harry.

“I remember,” the old wizard continued, “a young man in this very
office, cold and controlled as he faced down the Head of House
Slytherin, blackmailing his own Headmaster to protect his classmates.
And I believe that young man is more cunning than Professor Quirrell,
more cunning than Lucius Malfoy, that he will grow to be the equal of
Voldemort himself. It is he whom I wish to consult.”

Harry suppressed the chill that went through him at the name, frowned
thoughtfully at the Headmaster.

How much does he know…?

The Headmaster had seen Harry in the grip of his mysterious dark side,
as deep as Harry had ever sunk into it. Harry still remembered what it
had been like to watch, invisibly Time-Turned, as his past self faced
down the older Slytherins; the boy with the scar on his forehead who
didn’t act like the others. Of course the Headmaster would have noticed
something odd about the boy in his office…

And Dumbledore had concluded that his pet hero had cunning to match his
destined foe, the Dark Lord.

Which wasn’t asking for very much, considering that the Dark Lord had
put a clearly visible Dark Mark on all of his servants’ left arms, and
that he’d slaughtered the entire monastery that taught the martial art
he’d wanted to learn.

Enough cunning to match Professor Quirrell would be a whole different
order of problem.

But it was also clear that the Headmaster wouldn’t be satisfied until
Harry went all cold and darkish, and came up with some sort of answer
that sounded impressively cunning… which had better not actually get in
the way of Professor Quirrell’s teaching Defence…

And of course Harry would go over to his dark side and think it through
from that direction, just to be honest, and just in case.

“Tell me,” Harry said, “everything about how the Dementor is to be
brought in, and how it is to be guarded.”

Dumbledore’s eyebrows rose for a moment, and then the old wizard began
to speak.

The Dementor would be transported to the grounds of Hogwarts by an Auror
trio, all three personally known to the Headmaster, and all three able
to cast a corporeal Patronus Charm. They would be met at the edge of the
grounds by Dumbledore, who would pass the Dementor through the Hogwarts
wards—

Harry asked if the pass was permanent or temporary—whether someone could
just bring in the same Dementor again the next day.

The pass was temporary (replied the Headmaster with an approving nod),
and the explanation went on: the Dementor would be in a cage of solid
titanium bars, not Transfigured but true-forged; in time a Dementor’s
presence would corrode that metal to dust, but not in a single day.

Students awaiting their turn would stay well back of the Dementor,
behind two corporeal Patronuses maintained by two of the three Aurors at
any given time. Dumbledore would wait by the Dementor’s cage with his
Patronus. A single student would approach the Dementor; and Dumbledore
would dispel his Patronus; and the student would attempt to cast their
own Patronus Charm; and if they failed, Dumbledore would restore his
Patronus before the student could suffer any permanent damage. Past
duelling champion Professor Flitwick would also be present while there
were students near, just to add safety margin.

“Why just you waiting by the Dementor?” said Harry. “I mean, shouldn’t
it be you plus an Auror—”

The Headmaster shook his head. “They could not withstand the repeated
exposure to the Dementor, each time I dispel my Patronus.”

And if Dumbledore’s Patronus did fail for some reason, while one of the
students was still near the Dementor, the third Auror would cast another
corporeal Patronus and send it to shield the student…

Harry poked and prodded, but he couldn’t see a flaw in the security.

So Harry took a deep breath, sank further into the chair, closed his
eyes, and remembered:

“And that will be… five points? No, let us make it an even ten points
from Ravenclaw for backchat.”

The cold came more slowly now, more reluctantly, Harry hadn’t been
calling much on his dark side lately…

Harry had to run through that entire session in Potions in his mind,
before his blood chilled into something approaching deadly crystalline
clarity.

And then he thought of the Dementor.

And it was obvious.

“The Dementor is a distraction,” Harry said. The coldness clear in his
voice, since that was what Dumbledore wanted and expected. “A large,
salient threat, but in the end straightforward, and easy to defend
against. So while all your attention is focused on the Dementor, the
real plot will be happening elsewhere.”

Dumbledore stared at Harry for a moment, and then gave a slow nod.
“Yes…” said the Headmaster. “And I do believe I know what it might be a
distraction from, if Professor Quirrell means ill… thank you, Harry.”

The Headmaster was still staring at Harry, a strange look in those
ancient eyes.

“What?” said Harry with a tinge of annoyance, the cold still lingering
in his blood.

“I have another question for that young man,” said the Headmaster. “It
is something I have long wondered to myself, yet been unable to
comprehend. Why?” There was a tinge of pain in his voice. “Why would
anyone deliberately make himself a monster? Why do evil for the sake of
evil? Why Voldemort?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whirr, bzzzt, tick; ding, puff, splat…

Harry stared at the Headmaster in surprise.

“How would I know?” said Harry. “Am I supposed to magically understand
the Dark Lord because I’m the hero, or something?”

“Yes!” said Dumbledore. “My own great foe was Grindelwald, and him I
understood very well indeed. Grindelwald was my dark mirror, the man I
could so easily have been, had I given in to the temptation to believe
that I was a good person, and therefore always in the right. For the
greater good, that was his slogan; and he truly believed it himself,
even as he tore at all Europe like a wounded animal. And him, I defeated
in the end. But then after him came Voldemort, to destroy everything I
had protected in Britain.” The hurt was plain now in Dumbledore’s voice,
exposed upon his face. “He committed acts worse by far than
Grindelwald’s worst, horror for the sake of horror. I sacrificed
everything only to hold him back, and I still don’t understand why! Why,
Harry? Why did he do it? He was never my destined foe, but yours, so if
you have any guesses at all, Harry, please tell me! Why?”

Harry stared down at his hands. The truth was that Harry hadn’t read up
on the Dark Lord yet, and right now he hadn’t the tiniest clue. And
somehow that didn’t seem like an answer the Headmaster wanted to hear.
“Too many Dark rituals, maybe? In the beginning he thought he’d do just
one, but it sacrificed part of his good side, and that made him less
reluctant to perform other Dark rituals, so he did more and more rituals
in a positive feedback cycle until he ended up as a tremendously
powerful monster—”

“No!” Now the Headmaster’s voice was agonized. “I can’t believe that,
Harry! There has to be something more to it than just that!”

Why should there be? thought Harry, but he didn’t say it, because it was
clear that the Headmaster thought the universe was a story and had a
plot, and that huge tragedies weren’t allowed to happen except for
equally huge, significant reasons. “I’m sorry, Headmaster. The Dark Lord
doesn’t seem like much of a dark mirror to me, not at all. There isn’t
anything I find even the tiniest bit tempting about nailing the skins of
Yermy Wibble’s family to a newsroom wall.”

“Have you no wisdom to share?” said Dumbledore. There was pleading in
the old wizard’s voice, almost begging.

Evil happens, thought Harry, it doesn’t mean anything or teach us
anything, except to not be evil? The Dark Lord was probably just a
selfish bastard who didn’t care who he hurt, or an idiot who made
stupidly avoidable mistakes that snowballed. There is no destiny behind
the ills of this world; if Hitler had been allowed into architecture
school like he wanted, the whole history of Europe would have been
different; if we lived in the sort of universe where horrible things
were only allowed to happen for good reasons, they just wouldn’t happen
in the first place.

And none of that, obviously, was what the Headmaster wanted to hear.

The old wizard was still looking at Harry from over a fiddly thing like
a frozen puff of smoke, a painful desperation in those ancient, waiting
eyes.

Well, sounding wise wasn’t difficult. It was a lot easier than being
intelligent, actually, since you didn’t have to say anything surprising
or come up with any new insights. You just let your brain’s
pattern-matching software complete the cliche, using whatever Deep
Wisdom you’d stored previously.

“Headmaster,” Harry said solemnly, “I would rather not define myself by
my enemies.”

Somehow, even in the midst of all the whirring and ticking, there was a
kind of silence.

That had come out a bit more Deeply Wise than Harry had intended.

“You may be very wise, Harry…” the Headmaster said slowly. “I do wish…
that I could have been defined by my friends.” The pain in his voice had
grown deeper.

Harry’s mind searched hastily for something else Deeply Wise to say that
would soften the unintended force of the blow—

“Or perhaps,” Harry said more softly, “it is the foe that makes the
Gryffindor, as it is the friend that makes the Hufflepuff, and the
ambition that makes the Slytherin. I do know that it is always, in every
generation, the puzzle that makes the scientist.”

“It is a dreadful fate to which you condemn my House, Harry,” said the
Headmaster. The pain was still in his voice. “For now that you remark on
it, I do think that I was very much made by my enemies.”

Harry stared at his own hands, where they lay in his lap. Maybe he
should just shut up while he was ahead.

“But you have answered my question,” said Dumbledore more softly, as
though to himself. “I should have realized that would be a Slytherin’s
key. For his ambition, all for the sake of his ambition; and that I
know, though not why… ” For a time Dumbledore stared off into
nothingness; then he straightened, and his eyes seemed to focus on Harry
again.

“And you, Harry,” said the Headmaster, “you name yourself a scientist?”
His voice was laced with surprise and mild disapproval.

“You don’t like science?” said Harry a little wearily. He’d hoped
Dumbledore would be fonder of Muggle things.

“I suppose it is useful to those without wands,” said Dumbledore,
frowning. “But it seems a strange thing by which to define yourself. Is
science as important as love? As kindness? As friendship? Is it science
that makes you fond of Minerva McGonagall? Is it science that makes you
care for Hermione Granger? Will it be science to which you turn, when
you try to kindle warmth in Draco Malfoy’s heart?”

You know, the sad thing is, you probably think you just uttered some
kind of incredibly wise knockdown argument.

Now, how to phrase the rejoinder in such fashion that it also sounded
incredibly wise…

“You are not Ravenclaw,” Harry said with calm dignity, “and so it might
not have occurred to you that to respect the truth, and seek it all the
days of your life, could also be an act of grace.”

The Headmaster’s eyebrows rose up. And then he sighed. “How did you
become so wise, so young…?” The old wizard sounded sad, as he said it.
“Perhaps it will prove valuable to you.”

Only for impressing ancient wizards who are overly impressed with
themselves, thought Harry. He was actually a bit disappointed by
Dumbledore’s credulity; it wasn’t that Harry had lied, but Dumbledore
seemed far too impressed with Harry’s ability to phrase things so that
they sounded profound, instead of putting them into plain English like
Richard Feynman had done with his wisdom…

“Love is more important than wisdom,” said Harry, just to test the
limits of Dumbledore’s tolerance for blindingly obvious cliches
completed by sheer pattern matching without any sort of detailed
analysis.

The Headmaster nodded gravely, and said, “Indeed.”

Harry stood up out of the chair, and stretched his arms. Well, I’d
better go off and love something, then, that’s bound to help me defeat
the Dark Lord. And next time you ask me for advice, I’ll just give you a
hug—

“This day you have helped me much, Harry,” said the Headmaster. “And so
there is one last thing I would ask that young man.”

Great.

“Tell me, Harry,” said the Headmaster (and now his voice sounded simply
puzzled, though there was still a hint of pain in his eyes), “why do
Dark Wizards fear death so greatly?”

“Er,” said Harry, “sorry, I’ve got to back the Dark Wizards on that
one.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whoosh, hiss, chime; glorp, pop, bubble—

“What?” said Dumbledore.

“Death is bad,” said Harry, discarding wisdom for the sake of clear
communication. “Very bad. Extremely bad. Being scared of death is like
being scared of a great big monster with poisonous fangs. It actually
makes a great deal of sense, and does not, in fact, indicate that you
have a psychological problem.”

The Headmaster was staring at him as though he’d just turned into a cat.

“Okay,” said Harry, “let me put it this way. Do you want to die? Because
if so, there’s this Muggle thing called a suicide prevention hotline—”

“When it is time,” the old wizard said quietly. “Not before. I would
never seek to hasten the day, nor seek to refuse it when it comes.”

Harry was frowning sternly. “That doesn’t sound like you have a very
strong will to live, Headmaster!”

“Harry…” The old wizard’s voice was starting to sound a little helpless;
and he had paced to a spot where his silver beard, unnoticed, had
drifted into a crystalline glass goldfish bowl, and was slowly taking on
a greenish tinge that crept up the hairs. “I think I may have not made
myself clear. Dark Wizards are not eager to live. They fear death. They
do not reach up toward the sun’s light, but flee the coming of night
into infinitely darker caverns of their own making, without moon or
stars. It is not life they desire, but immortality; and they are so
driven to grasp at it that they will sacrifice their very souls! Do you
want to live forever, Harry?”

“Yes, and so do you,” said Harry. “I want to live one more day. Tomorrow
I will still want to live one more day. Therefore I want to live
forever, proof by induction on the positive integers. If you don’t want
to die, it means you want to live forever. If you don’t want to live
forever, it means you want to die. You’ve got to do one or the other…
I’m not getting through here, am I.”

The two cultures stared at each other across a vast gap of
incommensurability.

“I have lived a hundred and ten years,” the old wizard said quietly
(taking his beard out of the bowl, and jiggling it to shake out the
colour). “I have seen and done a great many things, too many of which I
wish I had never seen or done. And yet I do not regret being alive, for
watching my students grow is a joy that has not begun to wear on me. But
I would not wish to live so long that it does! What would you do with
eternity, Harry?”

Harry took a deep breath. “Meet all the interesting people in the world,
read all the good books and then write something even better, celebrate
my first grandchild’s tenth birthday party on the Moon, celebrate my
first great-great-great grandchild’s hundredth birthday party around the
Rings of Saturn, learn the deepest and final rules of Nature, understand
the nature of consciousness, find out why anything exists in the first
place, visit other stars, discover aliens, create aliens, rendezvous
with everyone for a party on the other side of the Milky Way once we’ve
explored the whole thing, meet up with everyone else who was born on Old
Earth to watch the Sun finally go out, and I used to worry about finding
a way to escape this universe before it ran out of negentropy but I’m a
lot more hopeful now that I’ve discovered the so-called laws of physics
are just optional guidelines.”

“I did not understand much of that,” said Dumbledore. “But I must ask if
these are things that you truly desire so desperately, or if you only
imagine them so as to imagine not being tired, as you run and run from
death.”

“Life is not a finite list of things that you check off before you’re
allowed to die,” Harry said firmly. “It’s life, you just go on living
it. If I’m not doing those things it’ll be because I’ve found something
better.”

Dumbledore sighed. His fingers drummed on a clock; as they touched it,
the numerals changed to an indecipherable script, and the hands briefly
appeared in different positions. “In the unlikely event that I am
permitted to tarry until a hundred and fifty,” said the old wizard, “I
do not think I would mind. But two hundred years would be entirely too
much of a good thing.”

“Yes, well,” Harry said, his voice a little dry as he thought of his Mum
and Dad and their allotted span if Harry didn’t do something about it,
“I suspect, Headmaster, that if you came from a culture where people
were accustomed to living four hundred years, that dying at two hundred
would seem just as tragically premature as dying at, say, eighty.”
Harry’s voice went hard, on that last word.

“Perhaps,” the old wizard said peacefully. “I would not wish to die
before my friends, nor live on after they had all gone. The hardest time
is when those you loved the most have gone on before you, and yet others
still live, for whose sake you must stay…” Dumbledore’s eyes were fixed
on Harry, and growing sad. “Do not mourn me too greatly, Harry, when my
time comes; I will be with those I have long missed, on our next great
adventure.”

“Oh!” Harry said in sudden realization. “You believe in an afterlife. I
got the impression wizards didn’t have religion?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Toot. Beep. Thud.

“How can you not believe it?” said the Headmaster, looking completely
flabbergasted. “Harry, you’re a wizard! You’ve seen ghosts!”

“Ghosts,” Harry said, his voice flat. “You mean those things like
portraits, stored memories and behaviours with no awareness or life,
accidentally impressed into the surrounding material by the burst of
magic that accompanies the violent death of a wizard—”

“I’ve heard that theory,” said the Headmaster, his voice growing sharp,
“repeated by wizards who mistake cynicism for wisdom, who think that to
look down upon others is to elevate themselves. It is one of the
silliest ideas I have heard in a hundred and ten years! Yes, ghosts do
not learn or grow, because this is not where they belong! Souls are
meant to move on, there is no life remaining for them here! And if not
ghosts, then what of the Veil? What of the Resurrection Stone?”

“All right,” Harry said, trying to keep his voice calm, “I’ll hear out
your evidence, because that’s what a scientist does. But first,
Headmaster, let me tell you a little story.” Harry’s voice was
trembling. “You know, when I got here, when I got off the train from
King’s Cross, I don’t mean yesterday but back in September, when I got
off the train then, Headmaster, I’d never seen a ghost. I wasn’t
expecting ghosts. So when I saw them, Headmaster, I did something really
dumb. I jumped to conclusions. I, I thought there was an afterlife, I
thought no-one had ever really died, I thought that everyone the human
species had ever lost was really fine after all, I thought that wizards
could talk to people who’d passed on, that it just took the right spell
to summon them, that wizards could do that, I thought I could meet my
parents who died for me, and tell them that I’d heard about their
sacrifice and that I’d begun to call them my mother and father—”

“Harry,” whispered Dumbledore. Water glittered in the old wizard’s eyes.
He took a step closer across the office—

“And then,” spat Harry, the fury coming fully into his voice, the cold
rage at the universe for being like that and at himself for being so
stupid, “I asked Hermione and she said that they were just after-images,
burned into the stone of the castle by the death of a wizard, like the
silhouettes left on the walls of Hiroshima. And I should have known! I
should have known without even having to ask! I shouldn’t have believed
it even for all of thirty seconds! Because if people had souls there
wouldn’t be any such thing as brain damage, if your soul could go on
speaking after your whole brain was gone, how could damage to the left
cerebral hemisphere take away your ability to talk? And Professor
McGonagall, when she told me about how my parents had died, she didn’t
act like they’d just gone away on a long trip to another country, like
they’d emigrated to Australia back in the days of sailing ships, which
is the way people would act if they actually knew that death was just
going somewhere else, if they had hard evidence for an afterlife,
instead of making stuff up to console themselves, it would change
everything, it wouldn’t matter that everyone had lost someone in the
war, it would be a little sad but not horrible! And I’d already seen
that people in the wizarding world didn’t act like that! So I should
have known better! And that was when I knew that my parents were really
dead and gone forever and ever, that there wasn’t anything left of them,
that I’d never get a chance to meet them and, and, and the other
children thought I was crying because I was scared of ghosts—”

The old wizard’s face was horrified, he opened his mouth to speak—

“So tell me, Headmaster! Tell me about the evidence! But don’t you dare
exaggerate a single tiny bit of it, because if you give me false hope
again, and I find out later that you lied or stretched things just a
little, I won’t ever forgive you for it! What’s the Veil?”

Harry reached up and wiped at his cheeks, while the glass things of the
office stopped vibrating from his last shriek.

“The Veil,” said the old wizard with only a slight tremble in his voice,
“is a great stone archway, kept in the Department of Mysteries; a
gateway to the land of the dead.”

“And how does anyone know that?” said Harry. “Don’t tell me what you
believe, tell me what you’ve seen!”

The physical manifestation of the barrier between worlds was a great
stone archway, old and tall and coming to a sharp point, with a tattered
black veil like the surface of a pool of water, stretched between the
stones; rippling, always, from the constant and one-way passage of the
souls. If you stood by the Veil you could hear the voices of the dead
calling, always calling in whispers barely on the wrong side of
comprehension, growing louder and more numerous if you stayed and tried
to hear, as they tried to communicate; and if you listened too long, you
would go to meet them, and in the moment you touched the Veil you would
be sucked through, and never be heard from again.

“That doesn’t even sound like an interesting fraud,” Harry said, his
voice calmer now that there was nothing there to make him hope, or make
him angry for having hopes dashed. “Someone built a stone archway, made
a little black rippling surface between it that Vanished anything it
touched, and enchanted it to whisper to people and hypnotize them.”

“Harry…” the Headmaster said, starting to look rather worried. “I can
tell you the truth, but if you refuse to hear it…”

Also not interesting. “What’s the Resurrection Stone?”

“I would not tell you,” the Headmaster said slowly, “save that I fear
what this disbelief may do to you… so listen, then, Harry, please
listen…”

The Resurrection Stone was one of the three legendary Deathly Hallows,
kin to Harry’s cloak. The Resurrection Stone could call souls back from
the dead—bring them back into the world of the living, though not as
they were. Cadmus Peverell used the stone to call back his lost beloved
from the dead, but her heart stayed with the dead, and not in the world
of the living. And in time it drove him mad, and he killed himself to be
truly with her once more…

In all politeness, Harry raised his hand.

“Yes?” the Headmaster said reluctantly.

“The obvious test to see if the Resurrection Stone is really calling
back the dead, or just projecting an image from the user’s mind, is to
ask a question whose answer you don’t know, but the dead person would,
and that can be definitely verified in this world. For example, call
back—”

Then Harry paused, because this time he’d managed to think it through
one step ahead of his tongue, fast enough to not say the first name and
test that had sprung to mind.

“…your dead wife, and ask her where she left her lost earring, or
something like that,” Harry finished. “Did anyone do any tests like
that?”

“The Resurrection Stone has been lost for centuries, Harry,” the
Headmaster said quietly.

Harry shrugged. “Well, I’m a scientist, and I’m always willing to be
convinced. If you really believe the Resurrection Stone calls back the
dead—then you must believe a test like that will succeed, right? So do
you know anything about where to find the Resurrection Stone? I got one
Deathly Hallow already under highly mysterious circumstances, and, well,
we both know how the rhythm of the world works on that sort of thing.”

Dumbledore stared at Harry.

Harry gazed equably back at the Headmaster.

The old wizard passed a hand across his forehead and muttered, “This is
madness.”

(Somehow, Harry managed to stop himself from laughing.)

And Dumbledore told Harry to draw forth the Cloak of Invisibility from
his pouch; at the Headmaster’s direction, Harry stared at the inside and
back of the hood until he saw it, faintly drawn against the silvery mesh
in faded scarlet like dried blood, the symbol of the Deathly Hallows: a
triangle, with a circle drawn inside, and a line dividing them both.

“Thank you,” Harry said politely. “I shall be sure to keep an eye out
for a stone so marked. Do you have any other evidence?”

Dumbledore appeared to be fighting a struggle within himself. “Harry,”
the old wizard said, his voice rising, “this is a dangerous road you are
walking, I am not sure I do the right thing by saying this, but I must
wrench you from this way! Harry, how could Voldemort have survived the
death of his body if he did not have a soul?”

And that was when Harry realized that there was exactly one person who’d
originally told Professor McGonagall that the Dark Lord was still alive
in the first place; and it was the crazy Headmaster of their madhouse of
a school, who thought the world ran on cliches.

“Good question,” Harry said, after some internal debate about how to
proceed. “Maybe he found some way of duplicating the power of the
Resurrection Stone, only he loaded it in advance with a complete copy of
his brain state. Or something like that.” Harry was suddenly far from
sure that he was trying to come up with an explanation for something
that had actually happened. “Actually, can you just go ahead and tell me
everything you know about how the Dark Lord survived and what it might
take to kill him?” If he even still exists as more than Quibbler
headlines.

“You are not fooling me, Harry,” said the old wizard; his face looked
ancient now, and lined by more than years. “I know why you are truly
asking that question. No, I do not read your mind, I do not have to,
your hesitation gives you away! You seek the secret of the Dark Lord’s
immortality in order to use it for yourself!”

“Wrong! I want the secret of the Dark Lord’s immortality in order to use
it for everyone!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tick, crackle, fzzzt…

Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore just stood there and stared at
Harry with his mouth gaping open dumbly.

(Harry awarded himself a tally mark for Monday, since he’d managed to
blow someone’s mind completely before the day was over.)

“And in case it wasn’t clear,” said Harry, “by everyone I mean all
Muggles too, not just all wizards.”

“No,” said the old wizard, shaking his head. His voice rose. “No, no,
no! This is insanity!”

“Bwa ha ha!” said Harry.

The old wizard’s face was tight with anger and worry. “Voldemort stole
the book from which he gleaned his secret; it was not there when I went
to look for it. But this much I know, and this much I will tell you: his
immortality was born of a ritual terrible and Dark, blacker than
pitchest black! And it was Myrtle, poor sweet Myrtle, who died for it;
his immortality took sacrifice, it took murder—”

“Well obviously I’m not going to popularize a method of immortality that
requires killing people! That would defeat the entire point!”

There was a startled pause.

Slowly the old wizard’s face relaxed out of its anger, though the worry
was still there. “You would use no ritual requiring human sacrifice.”

“I don’t know what you take me for, Headmaster,” Harry said coldly, his
own anger rising, “but let’s not forget that I’m the one who wants
people to live! The one who wants to save everyone! You’re the one who
thinks death is awesome and everyone ought to die!”

“I am at a loss, Harry,” said the old wizard. His feet once more began
trudging across his strange office. “I know not what to say.” He picked
up a crystal ball that seemed to hold a hand in flames, looked into it
with a sad expression. “Only that I am greatly misunderstood by you… I
don’t want everyone to die, Harry!”

“You just don’t want anyone to be immortal,” Harry said with
considerable irony. It seemed that elementary logical tautologies like
All x: Die(x) = Not Exist x: Not Die(x) were beyond the reasoning
abilities of the world’s most powerful wizard.

The old wizard nodded. “I am less afraid than I was, but still greatly
worried for you, Harry,” he said quietly. His hand, a little wizened by
time, but still strong, placed the crystal ball firmly back into its
stand. “For the fear of death is a bitter thing, an illness of the soul
by which people are twisted and warped. Voldemort is not the only Dark
Wizard to go down that bleak road, though I fear he has taken it further
than any before him.”

“And you think you’re not afraid of death?” Harry said, not even trying
to mask the incredulity in his voice.

The old wizard’s face was peaceful. “I am not perfect, Harry, but I
think I have accepted my death as part of myself.”

“Uh huh,” Harry said. “See, there’s this little thing called cognitive
dissonance, or in plainer English, sour grapes. If people were hit on
the heads with truncheons once a month, and no-one could do anything
about it, pretty soon there’d be all sorts of philosophers, pretending
to be wise as you put it, who found all sorts of amazing benefits to
being hit on the head with a truncheon once a month. Like, it makes you
tougher, or it makes you happier on the days when you’re not getting hit
with a truncheon. But if you went up to someone who wasn’t getting hit,
and you asked them if they wanted to start, in exchange for those
amazing benefits, they’d say no. And if you didn’t have to die, if you
came from somewhere that no-one had ever even heard of death, and I
suggested to you that it would be an amazing wonderful great idea for
people to get wrinkled and old and eventually cease to exist, why, you’d
have me hauled right off to a lunatic asylum! So why would anyone
possibly think any thought so silly as that death is a good thing?
Because you’re afraid of it, because you don’t really want to die, and
that thought hurts so much inside you that you have to rationalize it
away, do something to numb the pain, so you won’t have to think about
it—”

“No, Harry,” the old wizard said. His face was gentle, his hand trailed
through a lighted pool of water that made small musical chimes as his
fingers stirred it. “Though I can understand how you must think so.”

“Do you want to understand the Dark Wizard?” Harry said, his voice now
hard and grim. “Then look within the part of yourself that flees not
from death but from the fear of death, that finds that fear so
unbearable that it will embrace Death as a friend and cozen up to it,
try to become one with the night so that it can think itself master of
the abyss. You have taken the most terrible of all evils and called it
good! With only a slight twist that same part of yourself would murder
innocents, and call it friendship. If you can call death better than
life then you can twist your moral compass to point anywhere—”

“I think,” said Dumbledore, shaking water droplets from his hand to the
sound of tiny tinkling bells, “that you understand Dark Wizards very
well, without yet being one yourself.” It was said in perfect
seriousness, and without accusation. “But your comprehension of me, I
fear, is sorely lacking.” The old wizard was smiling now, and there was
a gentle laughter in his voice.

Harry was trying not to go any colder than he already was; from
somewhere there was pouring into his mind a blazing fury of resentment,
at Dumbledore’s condescension, and all the laughter that wise old fools
had ever used in place of argument. “Funny thing, you know, I thought
Draco Malfoy was going to be this impossible to talk to, and instead, in
his childish innocence, he was a hundred times stronger than you.”

A look of puzzlement crossed the old wizard’s face. “What do you mean?”

“I mean,” Harry said, his voice biting, “that Draco actually took his
own beliefs seriously and processed my words instead of throwing them
out the window by smiling with gentle superiority. You’re so old and
wise, you can’t even notice anything I’m saying! Not understand,
notice!”

“I have listened to you, Harry,” said Dumbledore, looking more solemn
now, “but to listen is not always to agree. Disagreements aside, what is
it that you think I do not comprehend?”

That if you really believed in an afterlife, you’d go down to St.
Mungo’s and kill Neville’s parents, Alice and Frank Longbottom, so they
could go on to their next great adventure, instead of letting them
linger here in their damaged state—

Harry barely, barely kept himself from saying it out loud.

“All right,” Harry said coldly. “I’ll answer your original question,
then. You asked why Dark Wizards are afraid of death. Pretend,
Headmaster, that you really believed in souls. Pretend that anyone could
verify the existence of souls at any time, pretend that nobody cried at
funerals because they knew their loved ones were still alive. Now can
you imagine destroying a soul? Ripping it to shreds so that nothing
remains to go on its next great adventure? Can you imagine what a
terrible thing that would be, the worst crime that had ever been
committed in the history of the universe, which you would do anything to
prevent from happening even once? Because that’s what Death really
is—the annihilation of a soul!”

The old wizard was staring at him, a sad look in his eyes. “I suppose I
do understand now,” he said quietly.

“Oh?” said Harry. “Understand what?”

“Voldemort,” said the old wizard. “I understand him now at last. Because
to believe that the world is truly like that, you must believe there is
no justice in it, that it is woven of darkness at its core. I asked you
why he became a monster, and you could give no reason. And if I could
ask him, I suppose, his answer would be: why not?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They stood there gazing into each other’s eyes, the old wizard in his
robes, and the young boy with the lightning-bolt scar on his forehead.

“Tell me, Harry,” said the old wizard, “will you become a monster?”

“No,” said the boy, an iron certainty in his voice.

“Why not?” said the old wizard.

The young boy stood very straight, his chin raised high and proud, and
said: “There is no justice in the laws of Nature, Headmaster, no term
for fairness in the equations of motion. The universe is neither evil,
nor good, it simply does not care. The stars don’t care, or the Sun, or
the sky. But they don’t have to! We care! There is light in the world,
and it is us!”

“I wonder what will become of you, Harry,” said the old wizard. His
voice was soft, with a strange wonder and regret in it. “It is enough to
make me wish to live just to see it.”

The boy bowed to him with heavy irony, and departed; and the oaken door
slammed shut behind him with a thud.

40. Pretending to be Wise, Part II

HARRY, holding the tea cup in the exactly correct way that Professor
Quirrell had needed to demonstrate three times, took a small, careful
sip. All the way across the long, wide table that was the centrepiece of
Mary’s Room, Professor Quirrell took a sip from his own cup, making it
look far more natural and elegant. The tea itself was something whose
name Harry couldn’t even pronounce, or at least, every time Harry had
tried to repeat the Chinese words, Professor Quirrell had corrected him,
until finally Harry had given up.

Harry had manœuvred himself into getting a glimpse at the bill last
time, and Professor Quirrell had let him get away with it.

He’d felt an impulse to drink a Comed-Tea first.

Even taking that into account, Harry had still been shocked out of his
skin.

And it still tasted to him like, well, tea.

There was a quiet, nagging suspicion in Harry’s mind that Professor
Quirrell knew this, and was deliberately buying ridiculously expensive
tea that Harry couldn’t appreciate just to mess with him. Professor
Quirrell himself might not like it all that much. Maybe nobody actually
liked this tea, and the only point of it was to be ridiculously
expensive and make the victim feel unappreciative. In fact, maybe it was
really just ordinary tea, only you asked for it in a certain code, and
they put a fake gigantic price on the bill…

Professor Quirrell’s expression was drawn and thoughtful. “No,”
Professor Quirrell said, “you should not have told the Headmaster about
your conversation with Lord Malfoy. Please try to think faster next
time, Mr Potter.”

“I’m sorry, Professor Quirrell,” Harry said meekly. “I still don’t see
it.” There were times when Harry felt very much like an impostor,
pretending to be cunning in Professor Quirrell’s presence.

“Lord Malfoy is Albus Dumbledore’s opponent,” said Professor Quirrell.
“At least for this present time. All Britain is their chessboard, all
wizards their pieces. Consider: Lord Malfoy threatened to throw away
everything, abandon his game, to take vengeance on you if Mr Malfoy was
hurt. In which case, Mr Potter…?”

It took more long seconds for Harry to get it, but it was clear that
Professor Quirrell wasn’t going to give any more hints, not that Harry
wanted them.

Then Harry’s mind finally made the connection, and he frowned.
“Dumbledore kills Draco, makes it look like I did it, and Lucius
sacrifices his game against Dumbledore to get at me? That… doesn’t seem
like the Headmaster’s style, Professor Quirrell…” Harry’s mind flashed
back to a similar warning from Draco, which had made Harry say the same
thing.

Professor Quirrell shrugged, and sipped his tea.

Harry sipped his own tea, and sat in silence. The tablecloth spread over
the table was in a very peaceful pattern, seeming at first like plain
cloth, but if you stared at it long enough, or kept silent long enough,
you started to see a faint tracery of flowers glimmering on it; the
curtains of the room had changed their pattern to match, and seemed to
shimmer as though in a silent breeze. Professor Quirrell was in a
contemplative mood that Saturday, and so was Harry, and Mary’s Room, it
seemed, had not neglected to notice this.

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said suddenly, “is there an afterlife?”

Harry had chosen the question carefully. Not, do you believe in an
afterlife? but simply Is there an afterlife? What people really believed
didn’t seem to them like beliefs at all. People didn’t say, ‘I strongly
believe in the sky being blue!’ They just said, ‘the sky is blue’. Your
true inner map of the world just felt to you like the way the world was…

The Defence Professor raised his cup to his lips again before answering.
His face was thoughtful. “If there is, Mr Potter,” said Professor
Quirrell, “then quite a few wizards have wasted a great deal of effort
in their searches for immortality.”

“That’s not actually an answer,” Harry observed. He’d learned by now to
notice that sort of thing when talking to Professor Quirrell.

Professor Quirrell set down his teacup with a small, high-pitched
tacking sound on his saucer. “Some of those wizards were reasonably
intelligent, Mr Potter, so you may take it that the existence of an
afterlife is not obvious. I have looked into the matter myself. There
have been many claims of the sort which hope and fear would be expected
to produce. Among those reports whose veracity is not in doubt, there is
nothing which could not be the result of mere wizardry. There are
certain devices said to communicate with the dead, but these, I suspect,
only project an image from the mind; the result seems indistinguishable
from memory because it is memory. The alleged spirits tell no secrets
they knew in life, nor could have learned after death, which are not
known to the wielder—”

“Which is why the Resurrection Stone is not the most valuable magical
artefact in the world,” said Harry.

“Precisely,” said Professor Quirrell, “though I wouldn’t say no to a
chance to try it.” There was a dry, thin smile on his lips; and
something colder, more distant, in his eyes. “You spoke to Dumbledore of
that as well, I take it.”

Harry nodded.

The curtains were taking on a faintly blue pattern, and a dim tracery of
elaborate snowflakes now seemed to be becoming visible on the
tablecloth. Professor Quirrell’s voice sounded very calm. “The
Headmaster can be very persuasive, Mr Potter. I hope he has not
persuaded you.”

“Heck no,” said Harry. “Didn’t fool me for a second.”

“I should hope not,” said Professor Quirrell, still in that very calm
tone. “I would be extremely put out to discover that the Headmaster had
convinced you to throw away your life on some fool plot by telling you
that death is the next great adventure.”

“I don’t think the Headmaster believed it himself, actually,” Harry
said. He sipped his own tea again. “He asked me what I could possibly do
with eternity, gave me the usual line about it being boring, and he
didn’t seem to see any conflict between that and his own claim to have
an immortal soul. In fact, he gave me a whole long lecture about how
awful it was to want immortality before he claimed to have an immortal
soul. I can’t quite visualize what must have been going on inside his
head, but I don’t think he actually had a mental model of himself
continuing forever in the afterlife…”

The temperature of the room seemed to be dropping.

“You perceive,” said a voice like ice from the other end of the table,
“that Dumbledore does not truly believe as he speaks. It is not that he
has compromised his principles. It is that he never had them from the
beginning. Are you becoming cynical yet, Mr Potter?”

Harry had dropped his eyes to his teacup. “A little,” Harry said to his
possibly-ultra-high-quality, perhaps-ridiculously-expensive Chinese tea.
“I’m certainly becoming a bit frustrated with… whatever’s going wrong in
people’s heads.”

“Yes,” said that icy voice. “I find it frustrating as well.”

“Is there any way to get people not to do that?” said Harry to his
teacup.

“There is indeed a certain useful spell which solves the problem.”

Harry looked up hopefully at that, and saw a cold, cold smile on the
Defence Professor’s face.

Then Harry got it. “I mean, besides Avada Kedavra.”

The Defence Professor laughed. Harry didn’t.

“Anyway,” Harry said hastily, “I did think fast enough not to suggest
the obvious idea about the Resurrection Stone in front of Dumbledore.
Have you ever seen a stone with a line, inside a circle, inside a
triangle?”

The deathly chill seemed to draw back, fold into itself, as the ordinary
Professor Quirrell returned. “Not that I can recall,” Professor Quirrell
said after a while, a thoughtful frown on his face. “That is the
Resurrection Stone?”

Harry set aside his teacup, then drew on his saucer the symbol he had
seen on the inside of his cloak. And before Harry could take out his own
wand to cast the Hover Charm, the saucer went floating obligingly across
the table toward Professor Quirrell. Harry really wanted to learn that
wandless stuff, but that, apparently, was far above his current
curriculum.

Professor Quirrell studied Harry’s tea-saucer for a moment, then shook
his head; and a moment later, the saucer went floating back to Harry.

Harry put his teacup back on the saucer, noting absently as he did so
that the symbol he’d drawn had vanished. “If you happen to see a stone
with that symbol,” said Harry, “and it does talk to the afterlife, do
let me know. I have a few questions for Merlin or anyone who was around
in Atlantis.”

“Quite,” said Professor Quirrell. Then the Defence Professor lifted up
his teacup again, and tipped it back as though to finish the last of
what was there. “By the way, Mr Potter, I fear we shall have to cut
short today’s visit to Diagon Alley. I was hoping it would—but never
mind. Let it stand that there is something else I must do this
afternoon.”

Harry nodded, and finished his own tea, then rose from his seat at the
same time as Professor Quirrell.

“One last question,” Harry said, as Professor Quirrell’s coat lifted
itself off the coat rack and went floating toward the Defence Professor.
“Magic is loose in the world, and I no longer trust my guesses so much
as I once did. So in your own best guess and without any wishful
thinking, do you believe there’s an afterlife?”

“If I did, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell as he shrugged on his
coat, “would I still be here?”

41. Frontal Override

THE biting January wind howled around the vast, blank stone walls that
demarcated the material bounds of the castle Hogwarts, whispering and
whistling in odd pitches as it blew past closed windows and stone
turrets. The most recent snow had mostly blown away, but occasional
patches of melted and refrozen ice still stuck to the stone face and
blazed reflected sunlight. From a distance, it must have looked like
Hogwarts was blinking hundreds of eyes.

A sudden gust made Draco flinch, and try, impossibly, to press his body
even closer to the stone, which felt like ice and smelled like ice. Some
utterly pointless instinct seemed convinced that he was about to be
blown off the outer wall of Hogwarts, and that the best way to prevent
this was to jerk around in helpless reflex and possibly throw up.

Draco was trying very hard not to think about the six stories worth of
empty air underneath him, and focus, instead, on how he was going to
kill Harry Potter.

“You know, Mr Malfoy,” said the young girl beside him in a
conversational voice, “if a seer had told me that some day I’d be
hanging onto the side of a castle by my fingertips, trying not to look
down or think about how loud Mum’d scream if she saw me, I wouldn’t’ve
had any idea of how it’d happen, except that it’d be Harry Potter’s
fault.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earlier

The two allied Generals stepped together over Longbottom’s body, their
boots hitting the floor in almost perfect synchrony.

Only a single soldier now stood between them and Harry, a Slytherin boy
named Samuel Clamons, whose hand was clenched white around his wand,
held upward to sustain his Prismatic Wall. The boy’s breathing was
coming rapidly, but his face showed the same cold determination that lit
the eyes of his general, Harry Potter, who was standing behind the
Prismatic Wall at the dead end of the corridor next to an open window,
with his hands held mysteriously behind his back.

The battle had been ridiculously difficult, for the enemy being
outnumbered two-to-one. It should have been easy, Dragon Army and the
Sunshine Regiment had melded together easily in practice sessions,
they’d fought each other long enough to know each other very well
indeed. Morale was high, both armies knowing that this time they weren’t
just fighting to win for themselves, but fighting for a world free of
traitors. Despite the surprised protests of both generals, the soldiers
of the combined army had insisted on calling themselves Dramione’s
Sungon Argiment, and produced patches for their insignia of a smiling
face wreathed in flames.

But Harry’s soldiers had all blackened their own insignia—it didn’t look
like paint, more like they’d burned that part of their uniforms—and
they’d fought all through the upper levels of Hogwarts with a desperate
fury. The cold rage that Draco sometimes saw in Harry had seemed to
trickle down into his soldiers, and they’d fought like it hadn’t been
play. And Harry had emptied out his entire bag of tricks, there’d been
tiny metal balls (Granger had identified them as “ball bearings”) on
floors and staircases, rendering them impassable until cleared, only
Harry’s army had already practised coordinated Hover Charms and they
could fly their own people right over the obstacles they’d made…

You couldn’t bring devices into the game from outside, but you could
Transfigure anything you wanted during the game, so long as it was safe.
And that just wasn’t fair when you were fighting a boy raised by
scientists, who knew about things like ball bearings and skateboards and
bungee cords.

And so it had come to this.

The survivors of the allied forces had cornered the last remnants of
Harry Potter’s army in a dead-end corridor.

Weasley and Vincent had rushed Longbottom at the same time, moving
together like they’d practised for weeks instead of hours, and somehow
Longbottom had managed to hex them both before falling himself.

And now it was Draco and Hermione and Padma and Samuel and Harry, and by
the looks of Samuel, his Prismatic Wall couldn’t last much longer.

Draco had already levelled his wand at Harry, waiting for the Prismatic
Wall to fall of its own accord; there was no need to waste a Breaking
Drill Hex before then. Padma levelled her own wand at Samuel, Granger
levelled hers at Harry…

Harry was still hiding his hands behind his back, instead of aiming his
wand; and looking at them with a face that could have been carved out of
ice.

It might be a bluff. It probably wasn’t.

There was a brief, tense silence.

And then Harry spoke.

“I’m the villain now,” the young boy said coldly, “and if you think
villains are this easy to finish off, you’d better think again. Beat me
when I’m fighting seriously, and I’ll stay beaten; but lose, and we’ll
be doing this all over again next time.”

The boy brought his hands forward, and Draco saw that Harry was wearing
strange gloves, with a peculiar greyish material on the fingertips, and
buckles that strapped the gloves tightly to his wrists.

Beside Draco, the Sunshine General gasped in horror; and Draco, without
even asking why, fired a Breaking Drill Hex.

Samuel staggered, he let out a scream as he staggered, but he held the
Wall; and if Padma or Granger fired now, they would exhaust their own
forces so badly that they might just lose.

“Harry!” shouted Granger. “You can’t be serious!”

Harry was already in motion.

And as he swung out the open window, his cold voice said, “Follow if you
dare.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The icy wind howled around them.

Draco’s arms were already starting to feel tired.

…It had developed that, yesterday, Harry had carefully demonstrated to
Granger exactly how to Transfigure the gloves he was currently wearing,
which used something called ‘gecko setæ’; and how to glue Transfigured
patches of the same material to the toes of their shoes; and Harry and
Granger had, in innocent childish play, tried climbing around the walls
and ceiling a little.

And that, also yesterday, Harry had supplied Granger with a grand total
of exactly two doses of Feather-Falling Potion to carry around in her
pouch, “just in case”.

Not that Padma would have followed them, anyway. She wasn’t crazy.

Draco carefully peeled loose his right hand, stretched it over as far as
he could, and slapped it down on the stone again. Beside him, Granger
did the same.

They’d already swallowed the Feather-Falling Potion. It was skirting the
edges of the game rules, but the potion wouldn’t be activated unless one
of them actually fell, and so long as they didn’t fall they weren’t
using the item.

Professor Quirrell was watching them.

The two of them were perfectly, completely, utterly safe.

Harry Potter, on the other hand, was going to die.

“I wonder why Harry is doing this,” said General Granger in a reflective
tone, as she slowly peeled the fingertips of one hand off the wall with
an extended sticky sound. Her hand plopped back down again almost as
soon as it was lifted. “I’ll have to ask him that after I kill him.”

It was amazing how much the two of them were turning out to have in
common.

Draco didn’t really feel like talking right now, but he managed to say,
through gritted teeth, “Could be revenge. For the date.”

“Really,” said Granger. “After all this time.”

Stick. Plop.

“How sweet of him,” said Granger.

Stick. Plop.

“I guess I’ll find some truly romantic way to thank him,” said Granger.

Stick. Plop.

“What’s he got against you?” said Granger.

Stick. Plop.

The icy wind howled around them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One might have thought it would feel safer to have ground under your
feet again.

But if that ground was a slanted roof tiled with rough slats, which had
rather a lot more ice on it than the stone walls, and you were running
across it at a high rate of speed…

Then you would be sadly mistaken.

“Luminos!” shouted Draco.

“Luminos!” shouted Granger.

“Luminos!” shouted Draco.

“Luminos!” shouted Granger.

The distant figure was dodging and scrambling as it ran, and not a
single shot hit, but they were gaining.

Until Granger slipped.

It was inevitable, in retrospect, in real life you couldn’t actually run
across icy slanted rooftops at a high rate of speed.

And also inevitably, because it happened without the slightest thought,
Draco spun and grabbed for Granger’s right arm, and he caught her, only
she was already too far off balance, she was falling and pulling Draco
with her, it all happened so quickly—

There was a hard, painful impact, not just Draco’s weight hitting the
rooftop but some of Granger’s weight too, and if she’d hit just a little
bit closer to the edge they could have made it, but instead her body
tipped again and her legs slipped off and her other hand grabbed
frantically…

And that was how Draco ended up holding onto Granger’s arm in a white
grip, while her other hand clenched frantically at the edge of the
rooftop and the toes of Draco’s shoes dug into the edge of a roof tile.

“Hermione!” Harry’s voice shrieked distantly.

“Draco,” whispered Granger’s voice, and Draco looked down.

That might have been a mistake. There was a lot of air underneath her,
nothing but air, they were on the edge of a rooftop that had jutted out
from the main stone wall of Hogwarts.

“He’s going to come and help me,” whispered the girl, “but first he’s
going to Luminos both of us, there’s no way he wouldn’t. You have to let
me go.”

It should have been the easiest thing in the world.

She was just a mudblood, just a mudblood, just a mudblood!

She wouldn’t even be hurt!

…Draco’s brain wasn’t listening to anything Draco was telling it right
now.

“Do it,” Hermione Granger whispered, her eyes blazing without a single
trace of fear, “do it, Draco, do it, you can beat him yourself we have
to win, Draco!”

There was a sound of someone running and it was coming closer.

Oh, be rational…

The voice in Draco’s head sounded an awful lot like Harry Potter
teaching lessons.

… are you going to let your brain run your life?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, 1

It was taking a bit of an effort for Daphne Greengrass to keep herself
quiet, as Millicent Bulstrode retold the story in the Slytherin girls’
common room (a cosy cool place in the dungeons running beneath the
Hogwarts Lake, with fish swimming past every window, and couches you
could lie down in if you wanted). Mostly because, in Daphne’s opinion,
it was a perfectly good story already without all of Millicent’s
improvements.

“And then what?” gasped Flora and Hestia Carrow.

“General Granger looked up at him,” Millicent said dramatically, “and
she said, ‘Draco! You’ve got to let go of me! Don’t worry about me,
Draco, I promise I’ll be all right!’ And what do you suppose Malfoy did
then?”

“He said ‘Never!’,” shouted Charlotte Wiland, “and held on even
tighter!”

All the listening girls except Pansy Parkinson nodded.

“Nope!” said Millicent. “He dropped her. And then he jumped up and shot
General Potter. The end.”

There was a stunned pause.

“You can’t do that!” said Charlotte.

“She’s a mudblood,” said Pansy, sounding confused. “Of course he let
go!”

“Well, Malfoy shouldn’t have grabbed her in the first place, then!” said
Charlotte. “But once he grabbed her, he had to hang on! Especially in
the face of approaching certain doom!” Tracey Davis, sitting next to
Daphne, was nodding along in firm agreement.

“I don’t see why,” said Pansy.

“That’s because you don’t have the tiniest smidgen of romance in you,”
said Tracey. “Besides, you can’t just go dropping girls. A boy who’d
drop a girl like that… he’d drop anyone. He’d drop you, Pansy.”

“What d’you mean, drop me?” Pansy said.

Daphne couldn’t resist any more. “You know,” Daphne said darkly, “you’re
eating breakfast one day at our table, and the next thing you know,
Malfoy lets go of you, and you’re falling off the top of Hogwarts!
That’s what!”

“Yeah!” said Charlotte. “He’s a witch dropper!”

“You know why Atlantis fell?” said Tracey. “’Cause someone like Malfoy
dropped it, that’s why!”

Daphne lowered her voice. “In fact… what if Malfoy’s the one who made
Hermione, I mean General Granger, slip in the first place? What if he’s
out to make all the Muggle-borns trip and fall?”

“You mean—?” gasped Tracey.

“That’s right!” Daphne said dramatically. “What if Malfoy is—the heir of
Slipperin?”

“The next Drop Lord!” said Tracey.

Which was far too good a line for anyone to keep to themselves, so by
nightfall it was all over Hogwarts, and the next morning it was the
Quibbler’s headline.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, 2

Hermione made sure she got to their usual classroom nice and early that
evening, just so that she would be by herself, in a chair, peacefully
reading a book, when Harry got there.

If there was any way for a door to creak open apologetically, that was
how the door was creaking open.

“Um,” said Harry Potter’s voice.

Hermione kept reading.

“I’m, um, kinda sorry, I didn’t mean for you to actually fall off the
roof or anything…”

It had been quite an entertaining experience, in fact.

“I, ah… I don’t have much experience apologizing, I’ll fall to my knees
if you want, or buy you something expensive, Hermione I don’t know how
to apologize to you for this what can I do just tell me?”

She kept reading the book in silence.

It wasn’t as if she had any idea how Harry could apologize, either.

Right now she was just feeling a sort of odd curiosity as to what would
happen if she kept reading her book for a while.

42. Courage

“ROMANTIC?” Hermione said. “They’re both boys!”

“Wow,” Daphne said, sounding a little shocked. “You mean Muggles really
do hate that? I thought that was just something the Death Eaters made
up.”

“No,” said an older Slytherin girl Hermione didn’t recognize, “it’s
true, they have to get married in secret, and if they’re ever
discovered, they get burned at the stake together. And if you’re a girl
who thinks it’s romantic, they burn you too.”

“That can’t be right!” objected a Gryffindor girl, while Hermione was
still trying to sort out what to say to that. “There wouldn’t be any
Muggle girls left!”

She’d kept on reading quietly, and Harry Potter had kept on trying to
apologize, and it had soon dawned on Hermione that Harry had realized,
possibly for the first time in his life, that he’d done something
annoying; and that Harry, definitely for the first time in his life, was
terrified that he’d lost her as a friend; and she’d started to feel
(a) guilty and (b) worried about the direction Harry’s increasingly
desperate offers were going. But she still had no idea what sort of
apology was appropriate, so she’d said that the Ravenclaw girls should
vote on it—and this time she wouldn’t fix the outcome, though she hadn’t
mentioned that part—to which Harry had instantly agreed.

The next day, practically every Ravenclaw girl over the age of thirteen
had voted to have Draco drop Harry.

Hermione had felt mildly disappointed it was that simple, though it was
obviously fair.

Right now, however, standing just outside the great doors of the castle
amid half the female population of Hogwarts, Hermione was beginning to
suspect that there were things going on here that she did not understand
and that she desperately hoped neither of her fellow generals ever heard
about.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You couldn’t really see the details from up there, just the general fact
of a sea of expectant female faces.

“You’ve got no idea what this is about, do you?” said Draco, sounding
amused.

Harry had read a fair number of books he wasn’t supposed to read, not to
mention a few Quibbler headlines.

“Boy-Who-Lived gets Draco Malfoy pregnant?” said Harry.

“Okay, you do know what this is about,” said Draco. “I thought Muggles
hated that?”

“Only the dumb ones,” said Harry. “But, um, aren’t we, uh, a little
young?”

“Not too young for them,” said Draco. He snorted. “Girls!”

They silently walked toward the edge of the roof.

“So I’m doing this for revenge on you,” said Draco, “but why are you
doing this?”

Harry’s mind made a lightning calculation, weighing the factors, whether
it was too soon…

“Honestly?” said Harry. “Because I meant to have her climb up the icy
walls, but I didn’t mean to have her fall off the roof. And, um, I kinda
did feel really awful about that. I mean, I guess I actually did start
seeing her as my friendly rival after a while. So this is a real apology
to her, not a plot or anything.”

There was a pause.

Then—

“Yeah,” said Draco. “I understand.”

Harry didn’t smile. It might have been the most difficult non-smile of
his life.

Draco looked at the edge of the roof, and made a face. “This is going to
be a lot harder to do on purpose than by accident, isn’t it.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry’s other hand held the roof in a reflexively terrified grip, his
fingers white on the cold, cold stone.

You could know with your conscious mind that you’d drunk the
Feather-Falling Potion. Knowing it with your unconscious mind was
another matter entirely.

It was every bit as scary as Harry had thought it might have been for
Hermione, which was justice.

“Draco,” said Harry, controlling his voice wasn’t easy, but the
Ravenclaw girls had given them a script, “You’ve got to let me go!”

“Okay!” said Draco, and let go of Harry’s arm.

Harry’s other hand scrabbled at the edge, and then, without any decision
being made, his fingers failed, and Harry fell.

There was a brief moment when Harry’s stomach tried to leap up into his
throat, and his body tried desperately to orient itself in the absence
of any possible way to do so.

There was a brief moment when Harry could feel the Feather-Falling
Potion kicking in, starting to slow him, a sort of lurching, cushioning
feeling.

And then something pulled on Harry and he accelerated downward again
faster than gravity—

Harry’s mouth had already opened and begun screaming while part of his
brain tried to think of something creative he could do, part of his
brain tried to calculate how much time he had left to be creative, and a
tiny rump part of his brain noticed that he wasn’t even going to finish
the remaining-time calculation before he hit the ground—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry was desperately trying to control his hyperventilating, and it
wasn’t helping him to hear the shrieking of all the girls, now lying in
heaps on the ground and each other.

“Good heavens,” said the unfamiliar man, he of the old-looking clothes
and faintly scarred face, who was holding Harry in his arms. “Of all the
ways I imagined we might meet again some day, I didn’t expect it to be
you falling out of the sky.”

Harry remembered the last thing he’d seen, the falling body, and managed
to gasp, “Professor… Quirrell…”

“He’ll be all right after a few hours,” said the unfamiliar man holding
Harry. “He’s just exhausted. I wouldn’t have thought it possible… he
must have knocked down two hundred students just to make sure he got
whoever was jinxing you…”

Gently, the man set Harry upright on the ground, supporting him the
while.

Harry carefully balanced himself, and nodded to the man.

He let go, and Harry promptly fell over.

The man helped him rise again. Making sure, at all times, to stand
between Harry and the girls now picking themselves up from the ground,
his head constantly glancing in that direction.

“Harry,” the man said quietly, and very seriously, “do you have any idea
which of these girls might have wanted to kill you?”

“Not murder,” said a strained voice. “Just stupidity.”

This time it was the unfamiliar man who seemed to almost fall over,
utter shock on his face.

Professor Quirrell was already sitting up from where he’d fallen on the
grass.

“Good heavens!” gasped the man. “You shouldn’t be—”

“Mr Lupin, your concerns are misplaced. No wizard, no matter how
powerful, casts such a Charm by strength alone. You must do it by being
efficient.”

Professor Quirrell didn’t stand up, though.

“Thank you,” Harry whispered. And then, “Thank you,” to the man standing
beside him as well.

“What happened?” said the man.

“I should have foreseen it myself,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice
crisp with disapproval. “Some number of girls tried to summon Mr Potter
to their own, particular arms. Individually, I suppose, they all thought
they were being gentle.”

Oh.

“Consider it a lesson in preparedness, Mr Potter,” said Professor
Quirrell. “Had I not insisted that there be more than one adult witness
to this little event, and that both of us have our wands out, Mr Lupin
would not have been available to slow your fall afterwards, and you
would have been gravely injured.”

“Sir!” said the man—Mr Lupin, apparently. “You should not say such
things to the boy!”

“Who is—” Harry started to say.

“The only other person who was available to watch, besides myself,” said
Professor Quirrell. “I introduce you to Remus Lupin, who is here
temporarily to instruct students in the Patronus Charm. Though I am told
that the two of you have already met.”

Harry studied the man, puzzled. He should have remembered that faintly
scarred face, that strange, gentle smile.

“Where did we meet?” said Harry.

“In Godric’s Hollow,” said the man. “I changed a number of your
nappies.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr Lupin’s temporary office was a small stone room with a small wooden
desk, and Harry couldn’t see anything of what Mr Lupin was sitting on,
suggesting that it was a small stool just like the one in front of his
desk. Harry guessed that Mr Lupin wouldn’t be at Hogwarts for long, or
use this office much, and so he’d told the house elves not to waste the
effort. It said something about a person that he tried not to bother
house elves. Specifically, it said that he’d been Sorted into
Hufflepuff, since, to the best of Harry’s knowledge, Hermione was the
only non-Hufflepuff who worried about bothering house elves. (Harry
himself thought her qualms rather silly. Whoever had created house elves
in the first place had been unspeakably evil, obviously; but that didn’t
mean Hermione was doing the right thing now by denying sentient beings
the drudgery they had been shaped to enjoy.)

“Please sit down, Harry,” the man said quietly. His formal robes were of
low quality, not quite tattered, but visibly worn by the passage of time
in a way that simple Repair Charms couldn’t fix; shabby was the word
that came to mind. And despite that, somehow, there was a dignity about
him that couldn’t have been obtained by fine and expensive robes, that
wouldn’t have fit with fine robes, that was the exclusive property of
the shabby. Harry had heard of humility, but he’d never seen the real
thing before—only the satisfied modesty of people who thought it was
part of their style and wanted you to notice.

Harry took a seat on the small wooden stool in front of Mr Lupin’s short
desk.

“Thank you for coming,” the man said.

“No, thank you for saving me,” said Harry. “Let me know if you ever need
something impossible done.”

The man seemed to hesitate. “Harry, may I… ask a personal question?”

“You can ask, certainly,” Harry said. “I have a lot of questions for
you, too.”

Mr Lupin nodded. “Harry, are your step-parents treating you well?”

“My parents,” Harry said. “I have four. Michael, James, Petunia, and
Lily.”

“Ah,” said Mr Lupin. And then, “Ah” again. He seemed to be blinking
rather hard. “I… that is good to hear, Harry, Dumbledore would tell none
of us where you were… I was afraid he might think you ought to have
wicked step-parents, or some such…”

Harry wasn’t sure Mr Lupin’s concern had been misplaced, considering his
own first encounter with Dumbledore; but it had all turned out well
enough, so he said nothing. “What about my…” Harry searched for a word
that didn’t raise them higher or put them lower… “other parents? I want
to know, well, everything.”

“A tall order,” Mr Lupin said. He wiped a hand across his forehead.
“Well, let us begin at the beginning. When you were born, James was so
happy that he couldn’t touch his wand without it glowing gold, for a
whole week. And even after that, whenever he held you, or saw Lily
holding you, or just thought of you, it would happen again—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Every now and then Harry would look at his watch, and find that another
thirty minutes had passed. He felt slightly bad about making Remus miss
dinner, especially since Harry himself would just drop back to 7 p.m.
later, but that wasn’t enough to stop either of them.

Finally Harry screwed up enough courage to ask the critical question,
while Remus was in the middle of an extended discourse on the wonders of
James’s Quidditch that Harry couldn’t find the heart to squash more
directly.

“And that was when,” Remus said, his eyes shining brightly, “James
pulled off a triple reverse Mulhanney Dive with extra backspin! The
whole crowd went wild, even some of the Hufflepuffs were cheering—”

I guess you had to be there, Harry thought—not that being there would
have helped in any way—and said, “Mr Lupin?”

Something about Harry’s voice must have reached the man, because he
stopped in mid-sentence.

“Was my father a bully?” said Harry.

Remus looked at Harry for a long moment. “For a little while,” Remus
said. “He grew out of it soon enough. Where did you hear that?”

Harry didn’t answer, he was trying to think of something true to say
that would deflect suspicion, but he didn’t think fast enough.

“Never mind,” said Remus, and sighed. “I can guess who.” The faintly
scarred face was pinched in disapproval. “What a thing to tell—”

“Did my father have any extenuating circumstances?” Harry said. “Poor
home life, or something like that? Or was he just… being naturally
nasty?” Cold?

Remus’s hand swept his hair back, the first nervous gesture Harry had
seen from him. “Harry,” Remus said, “you can’t judge your father by what
he did as a young boy!”

“I’m a young boy,” Harry said, “and I judge myself.”

Remus blinked twice at that.

“I want to know why,” Harry said. “I want to understand, because to me,
it seems like there isn’t any possible excuse for that!” Voice shaking a
bit. “Please tell me anything you know about why he did it, even if it
doesn’t sound nice.” So I don’t fall into the same trap myself, whatever
it is.

“It was the thing to do if you were in Gryffindor,” Remus said, slowly,
reluctantly. “And… I didn’t think so back then, I thought it was the
other way around, but… it might have been Black who got James into it,
really… Black wanted so much to show everyone that he was against
Slytherin, you see, we all wanted to believe that blood wasn’t destiny—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“No, Harry,” said Remus. “I don’t know why Black went after Peter
instead of running. It was as though Black was making tragedy for the
sake of tragedy that day.” The man’s voice was unsteady. “There was no
hint, no warning, we all thought—to think that he was to be—” Remus’s
voice cut off.

Harry was crying, he couldn’t help it, it hurt worse to hear it from
Remus than anything he’d ever felt himself. Harry had lost two parents
he didn’t remember, knew only from stories. Remus Lupin had lost all
four of his best friends in less than twenty-four hours; and for the
loss of his last remaining one, Peter Pettigrew, there’d just been no
reason at all.

“Sometimes it still hurts to think of him in Azkaban,” Remus finished,
his voice almost a whisper. “I am glad, Harry, that Death Eaters are not
allowed visitors. It means I do not have to feel ashamed of not going.”

Harry had to swallow hard several times before he could speak. “Can you
tell me about Peter Pettigrew? He was my father’s friend, and it
seems—that I should know, that I should remember—”

Remus nodded, water glittering in his own eyes now. “I think, Harry,
that if Peter had known it would end that way—” the man’s voice choked
up. “Peter was more afraid of the Dark Lord than any of us, and if he’d
known it would end that way, I don’t think he would have done it. But
Peter knew the risk, Harry, he knew the risk was real, that it could
happen, and yet he stayed by James and Lily’s side. All through Hogwarts
I used to wonder why Peter hadn’t been sorted into Slytherin, or maybe
Ravenclaw, because Peter so adored secrets, he couldn’t resist them, he
would find out things about people, things they wanted kept hidden—” A
brief wry look crossed Remus’s face. “But he didn’t use those secrets,
Harry. He just wanted to know. And then the Dark Lord’s shadow fell over
everything, and Peter stood by James and Lily and put his talents to
good use, and I understood why the Hat had sent him to Gryffindor.”
Remus’s voice was fierce now, and proud. “It’s easy to stand by your
friends if you’re a hero like Godric, bold and strong like people think
Gryffindors should be. But if Peter was more afraid than any of us,
doesn’t that also make him the most brave?”

“It does,” Harry said. His own voice was choked to where he almost
couldn’t talk. “If you could, Mr Lupin, if you have time, there’s
someone else who I think should hear Peter Pettigrew’s story, a student
in first-year Hufflepuff, named Neville Longbottom.”

“Alice and Frank’s boy,” said Remus, his voice turning sad. “I see. It
is not a happy story, Harry, but I can tell it again, if you think it
will help him.”

Harry nodded.

A brief silence fell.

“Did Black have any unfinished business with Peter Pettigrew?” Harry
said. “Anything that would make him seek out Mr Pettigrew, even if it
wasn’t a killing matter? Like a secret Mr Pettigrew knew, that Black
wanted to know himself, or wanted to kill him to hide?”

Something flickered in Remus’s eyes, but the older man shook his head,
and said, “Not really.”

“That means there is something,” said Harry.

That wry smile appeared again beneath the salt-and-pepper moustache.
“You have a bit of Peter in you yourself, I see. But it’s not important,
Harry.”

“I’m a Ravenclaw, I’m not supposed to resist the temptation of secrets.
And,” Harry said more seriously, “if it was worth Black getting caught,
I can’t help but think it might matter.”

Remus looked quite uncomfortable. “I suppose I could tell you when
you’re older, but really, Harry, it’s not important! Just something from
our school days.”

Harry couldn’t have put his finger on exactly what tipped him off; it
might have been something about the exact tone of nervousness in Remus’s
voice, or the way the man had said when you’re older, that sparked the
sudden leap of Harry’s intuition…

“Actually,” said Harry, “I think I’ve sort of guessed it already,
sorry.”

Remus raised his eyebrows. “Have you?” He sounded a bit skeptical.

“They were lovers, weren’t they?”

There was an awkward pause.

Remus gave a slow, grave nod.

“Once,” Remus said. “A long time ago. A sad affair, ending in vast
tragedy, or so it seemed to us all when we were young.” The unhappy
puzzlement was plain on his face. “But I had thought that long since
over and done and buried beneath adult friendship, until the day that
Black killed Peter.”

43. Humanism, Part I

THE gentle sun of January shone on the cold fields outside Hogwarts.

For some of the students it was a study hour, and others had been let
out of class. The first-years who’d signed up for it were practising a
certain spell, a spell that was most advantageously learned outdoors,
beneath the bright sun and a clear blue sky, rather than within the
confines of any classroom. Cookies and lemonade were also considered
helpful.

The early gestures of the spell were complex and precise; you twitched
your wand once, twice, thrice, and four times with small tilts at
exactly the right relative angles, you shifted your forefinger and thumb
exactly the right distances…

The Ministry thought this meant it was futile to try and teach anyone
the spell before their fifth year. There had been a few known cases of
younger children learning it, and this had been dismissed as “genius”.

It might not have been a very polite way of putting it, but Harry was
beginning to see why Professor Quirrell had claimed that the Ministry
Committee of Curriculum would have been of greater benefit to wizardkind
if they had been used as landfill.

So the gestures were complicated and delicate. That didn’t stop you from
learning it when you were eleven. It meant you had to be extra careful
and practise each part for a lot longer than usual, that was all.

Most Charms that could only be learned by older students were like that
because they required more strength of magic than any young student
could muster. But the Patronus Charm wasn’t like that, it wasn’t
difficult because it needed too much magic, it was difficult because it
took more than mere magic.

It took the warm, happy feelings that you kept close in your heart, the
loving memories, a different kind of strength that you didn’t need for
ordinary spells.

Harry twitched his wand once, twice, thrice and four times, shifted his
fingers exactly the right distances…

“Good luck at school, Harry. Do you think I bought you enough books?”

“You can never have enough books… but you certainly tried, it was a
really, really, really good try…”

It had brought tears to his eyes, the first time Harry had remembered
and tried to put it into the spell.

Harry brought the wand up and around and brandished it, a gesture that
didn’t have to be precise, only bold and defiant.

“Expecto Patronum!” cried Harry.

Nothing happened.

Not a single flicker of light.

When Harry looked up, Remus Lupin was still studying the wand, a rather
troubled look on his faintly scarred face.

Finally Remus shook his head. “I’m sorry, Harry,” the man said quietly.
“Your wandwork was exactly right.”

And there wasn’t a flicker of light anywhere else, either, because all
the other first-years who were supposed to be practising their Patronus
Charms had been glancing out of the corners of their eyes at Harry
instead.

The tears were threatening to come back into Harry’s eyes, and they
weren’t happy tears. Of all the things, of all the things, Harry had
never expected this.

There was something horribly humiliating about being informed that you
weren’t happy enough.

What did Anthony Goldstein have inside him that Harry didn’t, that made
Anthony’s wand shine with that bright light?

Did Anthony love his own father more?

“What thought were you using to cast it?” said Remus.

“My father,” Harry said, his voice trembling. “I asked him to buy me
some books before I came to Hogwarts, and he did, and they were
expensive, and then he asked me if they were enough—”

Harry didn’t try to explain about the Verres family motto.

“Take a rest before you try a different thought, Harry,” said Remus. He
gestured toward where some other students were sitting on the ground,
looking disappointed or embarrassed or regretful. “You won’t be able to
cast a Patronus Charm while you’re feeling ashamed of not being grateful
enough.” There was a gentle compassion in Mr Lupin’s voice, and for a
moment, Harry felt like hitting something.

Instead Harry turned around, and stalked to where the other failures
were sitting. The other students whose wandwork had also been proclaimed
perfect, and who were now supposed to be searching for happier thoughts;
by the looks of them they weren’t making much progress. There were many
robes there trimmed in dark blue, and a handful of red, and one lone
Hufflepuff girl who was still crying. The Slytherins hadn’t even
bothered showing up, except for Daphne Greengrass and Tracey Davis, who
were still trying to get the gestures.

Harry plopped down on the cold dead grass of winter, next to the student
whose failure had surprised him the most.

“So you couldn’t do it either,” Hermione said. She’d fled the field at
first, but she’d come back after that, and you had to look closely at
her reddened eyes to see that she’d been crying.

“I,” Harry said, “I, I’d probably feel a lot worse about that if you
hadn’t failed, you’re the nicest, person I know, that I’ve ever met,
Hermione, and if you also can’t do it, it means I might still be, be
good…”

“I should have gone to Gryffindor,” Hermione whispered. She blinked hard
a few times, but she didn’t wipe her eyes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The boy and the girl walked forward together, definitely not holding
hands, but each drawing a kind of strength from the other’s presence,
something that let them ignore the whispers of their year-mates, as they
walked through the hallway approaching the great doors of Hogwarts.

Harry hadn’t been able to cast the Patronus Charm no matter what happy
thought he tried. People hadn’t seemed surprised by that, which made it
even worse. Hermione hadn’t been able to do it either. People had been
very surprised by that, and Harry had seen her starting to get the same
sidelong looks as him. The other Ravenclaws who’d failed weren’t getting
those looks. But Hermione was the Sunshine General, and her fans were
treating it like she’d failed them, somehow, like she’d betrayed a
promise she’d never made.

The two of them had gone to the library to research the Patronus Charm,
which was Hermione’s way of dealing with distress, as it was sometimes
also Harry’s. Study, learn, try to understand why…

The books had confirmed what the Headmaster had told Harry; often,
wizards who couldn’t cast the Patronus Charm in practice would be able
to do so in the presence of a real Dementor, going from flat failure all
the way to a full corporeal Patronus. It defied all logic, the
Dementor’s aura of fear ought to make it harder to wield a happy
thought; but that was the way it was.

So the two of them were both going to give it one last try, there was no
way either of them wouldn’t give it one last try.

It was the day the Dementor came to Hogwarts.

Earlier, Harry had un-Transfigured his father’s rock from where it
usually rested on his pinky ring in the form of a tiny diamond, and
placed the huge grey stone back into his pouch. Just in case Harry’s
magic failed entirely, when he confronted the darkest of all creatures.

Harry had already started to feel pessimistic, and he wasn’t even in
front of a Dementor yet.

“I bet you can do it and I can’t,” Harry said in a whisper. “I bet
that’s what happens.”

“It felt wrong to me,” Hermione said, her voice even quieter than his.
“I tried it this morning and I realized. When I was doing the brandish
at the end, even before I said the words, it felt wrong.”

Harry didn’t say anything. He’d felt the same thing, right from the
start, though it had taken another five attempts using five other happy
thoughts before he’d been able to acknowledge it to himself. Every time
he tried to brandish his wand, it had felt hollow; the spell he was
trying to learn didn’t fit him.

“It doesn’t mean we’re going to be Dark Wizards,” said Harry. “Lots of
people who can’t cast the Patronus Charm aren’t Dark Wizards. Godric
Gryffindor wasn’t a Dark Wizard…”

Godric had defeated Dark Lords, fought to protect commoners from Noble
Houses and Muggles from wizards. He’d had many fine friends and true,
and lost no fewer than half of them in one good cause or another. He’d
listened to the screams of the wounded, in the armies he’d raised to
defend the innocent; young wizards of courage had rallied to his calls,
and he’d buried them afterwards. Until finally, when his wizardry had
only just begun to fail him in his old age, he’d brought together the
three other most powerful wizards of his era to raise Hogwarts from the
bare ground; the one great accomplishment to Godric’s name that wasn’t
about war, any kind of war, no matter how just. It was Salazar, and not
Godric, who’d taught the first Hogwarts class in Battle Magic. Godric
had taught the first Hogwarts class in Herbology, the magics of green
growing life.

To his last day he’d never been able to cast the Patronus Charm.

Godric Gryffindor had been a good man, not a happy one.

Harry didn’t believe in angst, he couldn’t stand reading about whiny
heroes, he knew a billion other people in the world would have given
anything to trade places with him, and…

And on his deathbed, Godric had told Helga (for Salazar had abandoned
him, and Rowena passed before) that he didn’t regret any of it, and he
was not warning his students not to follow in his footsteps, no-one was
ever to say he’d told anyone not to follow in his footsteps. If it had
been the right thing for him to do, then he wouldn’t tell anyone else to
choose wrongly, not even the youngest student in Hogwarts. And yet for
those who did follow in his footsteps, he hoped they would remember that
Gryffindor had told his House that it was all right for them to be
happier than him. That red and gold would be bright warm colours, from
now on.

And Helga had promised him, weeping, that when she was Headmistress she
would make sure of it.

Whereupon Godric had died, and left no ghost behind him; and Harry had
shoved the book back to Hermione and walked away a little, so she
wouldn’t see him crying.

You wouldn’t think that a book with an innocent title like “The Patronus
Charm: Wizards Who Could and Couldn’t” would be the saddest book Harry
had ever read.

Harry…

Harry didn’t want that.

To be in that book.

Harry didn’t want that.

The rest of the school just seemed to think that No Patronus meant Bad
Person, plain and simple. Somehow the fact that Godric Gryffindor also
hadn’t been able to cast the Patronus Charm seemed not to get repeated.
Maybe people didn’t talk about it to respect his last wish, Fred and
George probably didn’t know and Harry certainly wasn’t about to tell
them. Or maybe the other failures didn’t mention it because it was less
shameful, the smaller loss of pride and status, to be thought Dark
rather than unhappy.

Harry saw that Hermione, beside him, was blinking hard; and he wondered
if she was thinking of Rowena Ravenclaw, who’d also loved books.

“Okay,” Harry whispered. “Happier thoughts. If you do go to a full
corporeal Patronus, what do you think your animal will be?”

“An otter,” Hermione said at once.

“An otter?” Harry whispered incredulously.

“Yes, an otter,” said Hermione. “What about yours?”

“Peregrine falcon,” Harry said without hesitation. “It can dive faster
than three hundred kilometres per hour, it’s the fastest living creature
there is.” The peregrine falcon had been Harry’s favourite animal since
forever. Harry was determined to become an Animagus some day, just to
get that as his form, and fly by the strength of his own wings, and see
the land below with sharper eyes… “But why an otter?”

Hermione smiled, but didn’t say anything.

And the vast doors of Hogwarts swung open.

They walked for a time, the children, over a pathway that led toward the
un-forbidden forest, and continued through the forest itself. The Sun
was lowering to near the horizon, the shadows long, the sunlight
filtered through the bare branches of the winter trees; for it was
January, and the first-years the last to learn, that day.

Then the path swerved and took a new direction, and they all saw it in
the distance, the clearing in the forest, and the sere winter grounds,
yellowing dried grass whitened by a few small remnants of snow.

The human figures still small at that range. The two spots of dim white
light from the Aurors’ Patronuses, and the brighter spot of silver light
from the Headmaster’s, next to something…

Harry squinted.

Something…

It must have been purely Harry’s imagination, because there shouldn’t
have been any way for a Dementor to reach past three corporeal
Patronuses, but he thought he could feel a touch of emptiness brushing
at his mind, brushing straight at the soft inner centre of himself
without any respect for Occlumency barriers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Seamus Finnigan was ashen and trembling as he rejoined the students
milling about on the withered and snow-spotted grass. Seamus’s Patronus
Charm had been successful, but there was still that interval between
when the Headmaster dispelled his own Patronus and when you were
supposed to cast your own, when you faced the Dementor’s fear
unshielded.

Up to twenty seconds of exposure at five paces was certainly safe, even
for an eleven-year-old wizard with weak resistance and a still-maturing
brain. There was a lot of variance in how hard the Dementor’s power hit
people, which was another thing not quite understood; but twenty seconds
was definitely safe.

Forty seconds of Dementor exposure at five paces might possibly have
been enough to cause permanent damage, though only to the most sensitive
subjects.

It was harsh training even by the standards of Hogwarts, where the way
you learned to fly on a hippogriff was by being tossed on one and told
to get going. Harry was no fan of over-protectiveness, and if you looked
at the difference in maturity between a fourth-year in Hogwarts and a
fourteen-year-old Muggle, it was clear that Muggles were smothering
their children… but even Harry had started to wonder if this was pushing
it. Not every hurt could be healed afterwards.

But if you couldn’t cast the spell under those conditions, it meant you
couldn’t rely on using the Patronus Charm to defend yourself;
overconfidence was even more dangerous to wizards than to Muggles.
Dementors could drain your magic and your physical vitality, not just
your happy thoughts, which meant you might not be able to Apparate away
if you waited too long, or if you didn’t recognize the approaching fear
until the Dementor was within range for its attack. (During his reading,
Harry had discovered with considerable horror that some books claimed
the Dementor’s Kiss would eat your soul and that this was the reason for
the permanent mindless coma into which it put the victims. And that
wizards who believed this had deliberately used the Dementor’s Kiss to
execute criminals. It was a certainty that some called criminals were
innocent, and even if they weren’t, destroying their souls? If Harry had
believed in souls, he would have… drawn a blank, he just couldn’t think
of an appropriate response to that.)

The Headmaster was taking security seriously, and so were the three
Aurors standing guard. Their leader was an Asian-looking man, solemn
without being grim, Auror Komodo, whose wand never left his hand. His
Patronus, an orang-utan of solid moonlight, paced back and forth between
the Dementor and the first-years awaiting their turn; beside the
orang-utan moved the bright white panther of Auror Butnaru, a man with a
piercing gaze, long black hair in a ponytail, and a long braided goatee.
Those two Aurors, and their two Patronuses, were all watching the
Dementor. On the opposite side of the students was the resting Auror
Goryanof, tall and thin and pale and unshaven, sitting back on a chair
he’d conjured without word or wand, and maintaining an absent-minded
poker face as he scanned the entire scene. Professor Quirrell had shown
up not long after the first-years began their attempts, and his eyes
never strayed far from Harry. The tiny Professor Flitwick, who had been
a champion duellist, was fiddling absently with his wand; and his eyes,
peering out from within the huge puffy beard that served as his face,
stayed focused on Professor Quirrell.

And it must have been Harry’s imagination, but Professor Quirrell seemed
to wince slightly each time the Headmaster’s Patronus winked out to test
the next student. Maybe Professor Quirrell was imagining the same
placebo effect as Harry, that backwash of emptiness caressing at his
mind.

“Anthony Goldstein,” called the voice of the Headmaster.

Harry quietly walked toward Seamus, even as Anthony began to approach
the shining silver phœnix, and… whatever it was beneath the tattered
cloak.

“What did you see?” Harry asked Seamus in a low voice.

A lot of students hadn’t answered Harry, when he’d tried to gather the
data; but Seamus was Finnigan of Chaos, one of Harry’s lieutenants.
Maybe that wasn’t fair, but…

“Dead,” said Seamus in a whisper, “greyish and slimy… dead and left in
water for a while…”

Harry nodded. “That’s what a lot of people see,” Harry said. He
projected confidence, even though it was fake, because Seamus needed it.
“Go eat some chocolate, you’ll feel better.”

Seamus nodded and stumbled off toward the table of healing sweets.

“Expecto Patronum!” cried a young boy’s voice.

Then there were gasps of shock, even from the Aurors.

Harry spun around to look—

There was a brilliant silver bird standing between Anthony Goldstein and
the cage. The bird reared its head and let out a cry, and the cry was
also silver, as bright and hard and beautiful as metal.

And something in the back of Harry’s mind said, if that’s a peregrine
falcon, I’m going to strangle him in his sleep.

Shut up, Harry said to the thought, do you want us to be a Dark Wizard?

What’s the point? You’re going to end up as one eventually.

That… wasn’t something Harry would usually have thought…

It’s a placebo effect, Harry told himself again. The Dementor can’t
actually get to me through three corporeal Patronuses, I’m just
imagining what I think it’s like. When I actually face the Dementor,
it’ll feel completely different, and then I’ll know I was just being
silly before.

A slight chill went down Harry’s spine then, because he had a feeling
that yes, it would be completely different, and not in a positive
direction.

The blazing silver phœnix sprang back into existence from the
Headmaster’s wand, the lesser bird vanished; and Anthony Goldstein began
to walk back.

The Headmaster was coming with Anthony instead of calling out the next
name, the Patronus waiting behind to guard the Dementor.

Harry glanced over to where Hermione was standing, just behind the
glowing panther. Hermione’s turn would have come next, but had
apparently just been delayed.

She looked stressed.

Earlier, she’d politely asked Harry to please stop trying to de-stress
her.

Dumbledore was smiling slightly as he escorted Anthony back toward the
others; smiling only slightly, because the Headmaster looked very, very
tired.

“Unbelievable,” said Dumbledore in a voice that sounded much weaker than
his accustomed boom. “A corporeal Patronus, in his first year. And an
astounding number of successes among the other young students. Quirinus,
I must acknowledge that you have proved your point.”

Professor Quirrell inclined his head. “A simple enough guess, I should
think. A Dementor attacks through fear, and children are less afraid.”

“Less afraid?” said Auror Goryanof from where he was sitting.

“So I said as well,” said Dumbledore. “And Professor Quirrell pointed
out that adults had more courage, not less to fear; which thought, I
confess, had never occurred to me before.”

“That was not my precise phrasing,” Professor Quirrell said dryly, “but
it will do. And the rest of our agreement, Headmaster?”

“As you say,” Dumbledore said reluctantly. “I admit I was not expecting
to lose that wager, Quirinus, but you have proven your wisdom.”

All the students were looking at them, puzzled; except Hermione, who was
staring in the direction of the cage and the tall decaying robes; and
Harry, who was watching everyone, since he was imagining himself feeling
paranoid.

Professor Quirrell said, in tones that did not invite further comments,
“I am allowed to teach the Killing Curse to students who wish to learn
it. Which will render them considerably safer from Dark Wizards and
other pests, and it is foolish to think they will otherwise know no
deadly magics.” Professor Quirrell paused, his eyes narrowing.
“Headmaster, I respectfully observe that you are not looking well. I
suggest leaving the remainder of the day’s task to Professor Flitwick.”

Dumbledore shook his head. “We are almost done for the day, Quirinus. I
will last.”

Hermione had approached Anthony. “Captain Goldstein,” she said, and her
voice trembled only a little, “can you give me any advice?”

“Don’t be afraid,” Anthony said firmly. “Don’t think about anything it
tries to make you think about. You’re not just holding up the wand in
front of you as a shield against the fear, you’re brandishing your wand
to drive the fear away, that’s how you make a happy thought into
something solid…” Anthony shrugged helplessly. “I mean, I heard all that
before, but…”

Other students were starting to congregate around Anthony, with their
own questions.

“Miss Granger?” the Headmaster said. His voice might have been gentle,
or just weakened.

Hermione straightened her shoulders, and followed him.

“What did you see under the cloak?” Harry said to Anthony.

Anthony looked at Harry, surprised, and then answered, “A very tall man
who was dead, I mean, sort of dead-shaped and dead-coloured… it hurt to
see him and I knew that was the Dementor trying to get at me.”

Harry looked back out at where Hermione was confronting the cage and the
cloak.

Hermione raised her wand into position for the first gestures.

The Headmaster’s phœnix winked out of existence.

And Hermione gave a tiny, pathetic shriek, flinched—

—took a step back, Harry could see her wand moving, and then she
brandished it and said “Expecto Patronum!”

Nothing happened.

Hermione turned and ran.

“Expecto Patronum!” said the Headmaster’s deeper voice, and the silver
phœnix blazed back to life.

The young girl stumbled, and kept running, strange sounds beginning to
come from her throat.

“Hermione!” Susan yelled it, and Hannah, and Daphne, and Ernie, and they
all started to run toward her; even as Harry, who was always thinking
one step ahead, spun on his own heel and ran for the table with the
chocolate.

Even after Harry had shoved the chocolate into Hermione’s mouth and
she’d chewed and swallowed, she was still breathing in great gasps and
crying, her eyes still seemed unfocused.

She can’t have been permanently Demented, Harry thought desperately at
the confusion inside him, the horrible fear and deathly fury beginning
to twist around each other, she can’t have been, she wasn’t exposed for
even ten seconds let alone forty—

But she could be temporarily Demented, as Harry realized in that moment,
there wasn’t any rule that you couldn’t be temporarily injured by a
Dementor in just ten seconds if you were sensitive enough.

Then Hermione’s eyes seemed to focus, and dart around, and settle on
him.

“Harry,” she gasped, and the other students went silent. “Harry, don’t.
Don’t!”

Harry was suddenly afraid to ask what he shouldn’t do, was he in her
worst memories, or some sleep’s nightmare that she was now reliving in
waking life?

“Don’t go near it!” said Hermione. Her hand reached out, grabbed him by
the lapel of his robes. “You mustn’t go near it, Harry! It spoke to me,
Harry, it knows you, it knows you’re here!”

“What—” Harry said, and then cursed himself for asking.

“The Dementor!” said Hermione. Her voice rose to a shriek. “Professor
Quirrell wants it to eat you!”

In the sudden hush, Professor Quirrell came forward a few steps; but he
didn’t approach any closer (Harry was there, after all). “Miss Granger,”
he said, and his voice was grave, “I think you should have some more
chocolate.”

“Professor Flitwick, don’t let Harry try, send him back!”

The Headmaster had arrived by then, and he and Professor Flitwick were
exchanging worried looks.

“I did not hear the Dementor speak,” the Headmaster said. “Still…”

“Just ask,” said Professor Quirrell, sounding a little weary.

“Did the Dementor say how it would get to Harry?” said the Headmaster.

“All his tastiest parts first,” said Hermione, “it would—it would eat—”

Hermione blinked. Some sanity seemed to come back into her eyes.

Then she started crying.

“You were too brave, Hermione Granger,” the Headmaster said. His voice
was gentle, and clearly audible. “Too much braver than I comprehended.
You should have turned and run, not endured and tried to complete your
Charm. When you are older and stronger, Miss Granger, I know that you
will try again, and I know that you will succeed.”

“I’m sorry,” Hermione said in gasps, “I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry…
I’m sorry, Harry, I can’t tell you what I saw, I didn’t look at it, I
didn’t dare look at it, I knew it was too horrible to ever be seen…”

It should have been Harry, but he’d hesitated, because his hands were
all chocolatey; and then Ernie and Susan were there, helping Hermione
from where she’d fallen on the grass, leading her toward the snacks
table.

Five bars of chocolate later, Hermione seemed to be all right again, and
she went over and apologized to Professor Quirrell; but she was always
watching Harry, every time that he glanced in her direction. He’d
stepped toward her only once, and stopped when she’d stepped away. Her
eyes had silently apologized, and silently pleaded for him to leave her
be.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neville Longbottom had seen something dead and half-dissolved, oozing
and running with a face like a squashed sponge.

It was the worst thing anyone had yet described seeing. Neville had been
able to produce a small flicker of light from his wand before, but he
had, intelligently and with great presence of mind, turned and run away
instead of trying to cast his own Patronus Charm.

(The Headmaster had said nothing to the other students, told no-one else
to be less brave; but Professor Quirrell had calmly observed that if you
made the mistake after being warned, that was when ignorance became
stupidity.)

“Professor Quirrell?” Harry said in a low voice, having come as close to
the Defence Professor as he dared. “What do you see when you—”

“Don’t ask.” The voice was very flat.

Harry nodded respectfully. “What was your original phrasing to the
Headmaster, if I can ask?”

Dryly. “Our worst memories can only grow worse as we grow older.”

“Ah,” Harry said. “Logical.”

Something strange flickered in Professor Quirrell’s eyes, then, as he
looked at Harry. “Let us hope,” Professor Quirrell said, “that you
succeed upon this try, Mr Potter. For if you do, the Headmaster may
teach you his trick of using a Patronus to send messages that cannot be
forged or intercepted, and the military importance of that is impossible
to overstate. It would be a tremendous advantage to the Chaos Legion,
and some day, I suspect, this entire country. But if you do not succeed,
Mr Potter… well, I shall understand.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Morag MacDougal had said, in a wavering voice, “Ouch,” and Dumbledore
had recast his Patronus right away.

Parvati Patil had produced a corporeal Patronus in the form of a tiger,
larger than Dumbledore’s phœnix, though not nearly as bright. There had
been a great burst of applause from all the watchers, though not the
same shock as when Anthony had done it.

And then it was Harry’s turn.

The Headmaster called the name of Harry Potter, and Harry was afraid.

Harry knew, he knew that he was going to fail, and he knew that it was
going to hurt.

But he still had to try; because sometimes, in the presence of a
Dementor, a wizard went from not a flicker of light to a full corporeal
Patronus, and no-one understood why.

And because if Harry couldn’t defend himself from Dementors, he had to
be able to recognize their approach, recognize the feeling of them in
his mind, and run before it was too late.

What is my worst memory…?

Harry had expected the Headmaster to give him a worried look, or a
hopeful look, or deeply wise advice; but instead Albus Dumbledore only
watched him with quiet calm.

He thinks I’m going to fail, but he won’t sabotage me by telling me so,
thought Harry, if he had true words of encouragement to speak, he would
speak them…

The cage came closer. It was already tarnished, but not rusted away to
nothing, not yet.

The cloak came closer. It was unravelling and shot through with
unpatched holes; it had been new that morning, Auror Goryanof had said.

“Headmaster?” Harry said. “What do you see?”

The Headmaster’s voice was also calm. “The Dementors are creatures of
fear, and as your fear of the Dementor diminishes, so does the
fearsomeness of its form. I see a tall, thin, naked man. He is not
decaying. He is only slightly painful to look upon. That is all. What do
you see, Harry?”

…Harry couldn’t see under the cloak.

Or that wasn’t right, it was that his mind was refusing to see what was
under the cloak…

No, his mind was trying to see the wrong thing under the cloak, Harry
could feel it, his eyes trying to force a mistake. But Harry had done
his best to train himself to notice that tiny feeling of confusion, to
automatically flinch away from making stuff up; and every time his mind
tried to start inventing a lie about what was under the cloak, that
reflex was fast enough to shut it down.

Harry looked under the cloak and saw…

An open question. Harry wouldn’t let his mind see something false, and
so he didn’t see anything, like the part of his visual cortex getting
that signal was just ceasing to exist. There was a blind spot under the
cloak. Harry couldn’t know what was under there.

Just that it was far worse than any decaying mummy.

The unseeable horror beneath the cloak was very close, now, but the
blazing bird of moonlight, the white phœnix, yet lay between them.

Harry wanted to run away like some of the other students had. Half the
ones who’d had no luck with their Patronus Charms just hadn’t shown up
today in the first place. Of those remaining, half had fled before the
Headmaster had even dispelled his own Patronus, and no-one had said a
word. There’d been a little laughter when Terry had turned and walked
back before his own try; and Susan and Hannah, who’d gone before, had
yelled at everyone to shut up.

But Harry was the Boy-Who-Lived, and he would lose much respect if he
was seen to give up without even trying…

Pride and roles seemed to diminish and fall away, in the presence of
whatever lay beneath the cloak.

Why am I still here?

It wasn’t the shame of others thinking him cowardly, that kept Harry’s
feet in place.

It wasn’t the hope of repairing his reputation that brought up his wand.

It wasn’t the desire to master the Patronus Charm as magic, that moved
his fingers into the initial position.

It was something else, something that had to oppose whatever lay beneath
the cloak, this was the true darkness and Harry had to find out whether
it lay within him, the power to drive it back.

Harry had planned to try one final time to think of his book-shopping
spree with his father, but instead, at the last minute, facing the
Dementor, a different memory occurred to him, something he hadn’t tried
before; a thought that wasn’t warm and happy in the ordinary way, but
felt righter, somehow.

And Harry remembered the stars, remembered them burning terribly bright
and unwavering in the Silent Night; he let that image fill him, fill all
of him like an Occlumency barrier across his entire mind, became once
again the bodiless awareness of the void.

The bright silver shining phœnix vanished.

And the Dementor smashed into his mind like the fist of God.

FEAR / COLD / DARKNESS

There was an instant when the two forces clashed head-on, when the
peaceful starlit memory held its own against the fear, even as Harry’s
fingers began the wand motions, practised until they had become
automatic. They weren’t warm and happy, those blazing points of light in
perfect blackness; but it was an image the Dementor could not easily
pierce. For the silent burning stars were vast and unafraid, and to
shine in the cold and darkness was their natural state.

But there was a flaw, a crack, a fault-line in the immovable object
trying to resist that irresistible force. Harry felt a twinge of anger
at the Dementor for trying to feed on him, and it was like slipping on
wet ice. Harry’s mind began to slide sideways, into bitterness, black
fury, deathly hatred—

Harry’s wand came up in the final brandish.

It felt wrong.

“Expecto Patronum,” his voice spoke, the words hollow and pointless.

And Harry fell into his dark side, fell down into his dark side, further
and faster and deeper than ever before, down down down as the slide
accelerated, as the Dementor latched onto the exposed and vulnerable
parts and fed on them, eating away the light. A fading reflex scrabbled
for warmth, but even as an image of Hermione came to him, or an image of
Mum and Dad, the Dementor twisted it, showed him Hermione lying dead on
the ground, the corpses of his mother and father, and then even that was
sucked away.

Into the vacuum rose the memory, the worst memory, something forgotten
so long ago that the neural patterns shouldn’t have still existed.

“Lily, take Harry and go! It’s him!” shouted a man’s voice. “Go! Run!
I’ll hold him off!”

And Harry couldn’t help but think, in the empty depths of his dark side,
how ridiculously overconfident James Potter had been. Hold off Lord
Voldemort? With what?

Then the other voice spoke, high-pitched like the hiss of a kettle, and
it was like dry ice laid on Harry’s every nerve, like a brand of metal
cooled to liquid helium temperatures and laid on every part of him. And
the voice said:

“Avada Kedavra.”

(The wand flew from the boy’s nerveless fingers as his body began to
convulse and fall, the Headmaster’s eyes widening in alarm as he began
his own Patronus Charm.)

“Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!” screamed the woman’s voice.

Whatever was left of Harry listened with all the light drained out of
him, in the dead void of his heart, and wondered if she thought that
Lord Voldemort would stop because she asked politely.

“Step aside, woman!” said the shrill voice of burning cold. “For you I
am not come, only the boy.”

“Not Harry! Please… have mercy… have mercy…”

Lily Potter, Harry thought, seemed not to understand what type of people
became Dark Lords in the first place; and if this was the best strategy
she could conceive to save her child’s life, that was her final failure
as a mother.

“I give you this rare chance to flee,” said the shrill voice. “But I
will not trouble myself to subdue you, and your death here will not save
your child. Step aside, foolish woman, if you have any sense in you at
all!”

“Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead!”

The empty thing that was Harry wondered if Lily Potter seriously
imagined that Lord Voldemort would say yes, kill her, and then depart
leaving her son unharmed.

“Very well,” said the voice of death, now sounding coldly amused, “I
accept the bargain. Yourself to die, and the child to live. Now drop
your wand so that I can murder you.”

There was a hideous silence.

Lord Voldemort began to laugh, horrible contemptuous laughter.

And then, at last, Lily Potter’s voice shrieked in desperate hate,
“Avada Ke—”

The lethal voice finished first, the curse rapid and precise.

“Avada Kedavra.”

A blinding flare of green marked the end of Lily Potter.

And the boy in the crib saw it, the eyes, those two crimson eyes,
seeming to glow bright red, to blaze like miniature suns, filling
Harry’s whole vision as they locked to his own—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The other children saw Harry Potter fall, they heard Harry Potter
scream, a thin high-pitched scream that seemed to pierce their ears like
knives.

There was a brilliant silver flash as the Headmaster bellowed “Expecto
Patronum!” and the blazing phœnix returned to being.

But Harry Potter’s horrible scream went on and on and on, even as the
Headmaster scooped up the boy in his arms and bore him away from the
Dementor, even as Neville Longbottom and Professor Flitwick both went
for the chocolate at the same time and—

Hermione knew it, she knew it as she saw it, she knew that her nightmare
had been real, it was coming true, somehow it was coming true.

“Get him chocolate!” demanded the voice of Professor Quirrell,
pointlessly, because Professor Flitwick’s tiny form was already
cannonballing toward where the Headmaster was racing toward the
students.

Hermione was moving forward herself, though she didn’t know what else
she meant to do—

“Cast Patronuses!” shouted the Headmaster, as he brought Harry behind
the Aurors. “Everyone who can! Get them between Harry and the Dementor!
It’s still feeding on him!”

There was a moment of frozen horror.

“Expecto Patronum!” shouted Professor Flitwick and Auror Goryanof, and
then Anthony Goldstein, but he failed the first time, and then Parvati
Patil, who succeeded, and then Anthony tried again and his silver bird
spread its wings and screamed at the Dementor, and Dean Thomas roared
the words like they had been written in letters of fire and his wand
gave birth to a towering white bear; there were eight blazing Patronuses
all in a line between Harry and the Dementor, and Harry went on
screaming and screaming as the Headmaster laid him on the dried grass.

Hermione couldn’t cast a Patronus Charm, so she ran toward where Harry
lay. In her mind, something tried to guess how long it had been already.
Was it twenty seconds? More?

There was a dreadful agony and bewilderment on the face of Albus
Dumbledore. His long black wand was in his hand, but he spoke no spells,
only looked down at Harry’s convulsing body in horror—

Hermione didn’t know what to do, she didn’t know what to do, she didn’t
understand what was happening, and the most powerful wizard in the world
seemed equally at a loss.

“Use your phœnix!” bellowed Professor Quirrell. “Take him far away from
that Dementor!”

Without a single word the Headmaster scooped up Harry in his arms and
vanished in a crack of fire along with the suddenly appearing Fawkes;
and the Headmaster’s Patronus winked out, where it had guarded the
Dementor.

Horror and confusion and sudden babble.

“Mr Potter should recover,” Professor Quirrell said, raising his voice,
but his tone now calm once again, “I think it was just over twenty
seconds.”

Then the blazing white phœnix appeared again, like it was flying before
them from elsewhere, to Hermione Granger came the creature of moonlight,
and it cried to her in Albus Dumbledore’s voice:

“It still feeds on him, even here! How? If you know, Hermione Granger,
you must tell me! Tell me!”

The senior Auror turned to stare at her, and so did many students.
Professor Flitwick didn’t turn, he was now levelling his wand on
Professor Quirrell, who was holding out clearly empty hands.

Seconds ticked past, uncounted.

She couldn’t remember it, she couldn’t remember the nightmare clearly,
she couldn’t remember why she had thought it was possible, why she had
been afraid—

Hermione realized then what she ought to do, and it was the hardest
decision of her life.

What if whatever had happened to Harry, happened to her too?

All her limbs cold as death, her vision gone dark, fear overwhelming
everything; she’d seen Harry dying, Mum and Dad dying, all her friends
dying, everyone dying, so that in the end, when she died, she would be
alone. That was her secret nightmare she’d never talked about with
anyone, that had given the Dementor its power over her, the loneliest
thing was to die alone.

She didn’t want to go to that place again, she, she didn’t, she didn’t
want to stay there forever—

You have courage enough for Gryffindor, said the calm voice of the
Sorting Hat in her memory, but you will do what is right in any House I
give you. You will learn, you will stand by your friends, in any House
you choose. So don’t be afraid, Hermione Granger, just decide where you
belong…

There was no time for deciding, Harry was dying.

“I can’t remember now,” said Hermione, her voice cracking, “but just
hold on, I’ll go in front of the Dementor again…”

She started to run toward the Dementor.

“Miss Granger!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, but he made no move to stop
her, only kept holding his wand on Professor Quirrell.

“Everyone!” shouted Auror Komodo in a voice of military command. “Get
your Patronuses out of her way!”

“FLITWICK!” roared Professor Quirrell. “SUMMON POTTER’S WAND!”

Even as Hermione understood, Professor Flitwick was already crying
“Accio!”, and she saw the stick of wood zooming up from where it had
lain almost touching the Dementor’s cage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The eyes opened, dead and vacant.

“Harry!” gasped a voice in the colourless world. “Harry! Speak to me!”

The face of Albus Dumbledore leaned over into the field of vision, which
had been occupied by a distant marble ceiling.

“You’re annoying,” said the empty voice. “You should die.”

44. Humanism, Part II

“FAWKES,” said Albus Dumbledore, his voice cracking, “help him, please—”

A brilliant creature of red-gold shuffled into the field of vision,
looking down quizzically; and it began to croon.

The meaningless chirps slid off the emptiness, there was nothing onto
which they could hold.

“You’re noisy,” said the voice, “you should die.”

“Chocolate,” Albus Dumbledore said, “you need chocolate, and your
friends—but I dare not take you back—”

Then a shining raven came, and spoke in Professor Flitwick’s voice;
whereupon Albus Dumbledore gasped in sudden comprehension, and cursed
aloud at his own stupidity.

The empty thing laughed at that, for it had retained the capacity to be
amused.

And a moment later they had all vanished in another flash of fire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was only a moment, it seemed, between when Flitwick’s raven had flown
to elsewhere, and when Albus Dumbledore reappeared in another crack of
red and golden fire with Harry in his arms; but somehow in that time
Hermione had already managed to fill her hands with chocolate.

Before Hermione even got there, chocolate had zoomed off the table and
straight into Harry’s mouth, which a tiny part of her mind said was
unfair, he’d had a chance to do it for her—

Harry spat the chocolate back out again.

“Go away,” said a voice so empty it wasn’t even cold.

…

Everything seemed to freeze, everyone who had been moving toward Harry
halted, all movements broken by the shock of those two dead words.

Then: “No,” said Albus Dumbledore, “I will not,” and time resumed again,
even as another piece of chocolate zoomed off the table and into Harry’s
mouth.

Hermione was close enough now that she could see Harry’s expression
become more hateful, as his mouth chewed with a mechanical, unnatural
rhythm.

The Headmaster’s voice was grim as iron. “Filius, call Minerva, tell her
she must come at speed.”

Professor Flitwick whispered to his silver raven, and it flew into the
air and vanished.

Another piece of chocolate floated into Harry’s mouth, and the
mechanical chewing continued.

There were more students gathering around where the Headmaster watched
over Harry with grim eyes: Neville, Seamus, Dean, Lavender, Ernie,
Terry, Anthony, none of them daring to approach any closer than Hermione
had.

“What can we do?” said Dean in a trembling voice.

“Back off and give him more space—” said the dry voice of Professor
Quirrell.

“No!” interrupted the Headmaster. “Let him be surrounded by his
friends.”

Harry swallowed his chocolate, and said in that empty voice, “They’re
stupid. They should diemmmppphhh” as another piece of chocolate entered
his mouth.

Hermione saw the looks of shock that crossed their faces.

“He doesn’t mean it, does he?” Seamus said it like he was begging.

“You don’t understand,” Hermione said, her voice breaking, “that’s not
Harry—” and she shut up before she said anything more, but she had to
say that much.

She saw from the look on his face that Neville understood, and she also
saw that the others didn’t. If Harry had really never thought anything
like that, then being exposed to a Dementor for less than a minute
wouldn’t have made him say it. That’s what they were probably thinking.

Less than a minute of Dementor exposure couldn’t create a whole new evil
person inside you out of nothing.

But if that person was already there—

Does the Headmaster know?

Hermione looked up at the Headmaster, and found that Albus Dumbledore
was gazing at her, and that his blue eyes had grown suddenly piercing—

Words came into her mind.

Do not speak of it, said the will of Dumbledore to her.

You know, thought Hermione. About his dark side.

I know. But this is beyond even that. Fawkes’s song cannot reach him,
where he is lost.

What can we—

I have a plan, sent the Headmaster. Patience.

Something about the tenor of that thought made Hermione nervous. What
sort of plan?

It is better that you not know, sent the Headmaster.

Now Hermione was getting really nervous. She didn’t know how much the
Headmaster knew about Harry’s dark side—

A fair point, sent the Headmaster. I am about to tell you; steel
yourself so as not to react. Are you ready? Good. I am going to pretend
to cast the Killing Curse on Professor McGonagall—do not react,
Hermione!

That took work. The Headmaster really was crazy! That wouldn’t bring
Harry out of his dark side, Harry would go completely berserk, he’d kill
the Headmaster—

But that is not true darkness, sent Albus Dumbledore. That is
protectiveness, that is love. Fawkes will be able to reach him, then.
And when Harry sees that Minerva is alive after all, it will return him
fully.

The thought came to Hermione—

I doubt that will work, sent the Headmaster, and you may not like the
way he reacts if you try. But you may try if you wish.

She hadn’t really meant that seriously! It was too—

Then her eyes moved, breaking gaze with the Headmaster, going to the boy
looking around with empty, despising eyes as his mouth kept chewing and
swallowing bar after bar of chocolate without effect. Her heart
wrenched, and suddenly a lot of things didn’t seem to matter, only that
there was a chance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a compulsion to chew and swallow chocolate. The response to
compulsion was killing.

People had gathered around and stared. That was annoying. The response
to annoyance was killing.

Other people were chattering in the background. That was insolent. The
response to insolence was to inflict pain, but since none of them were
useful, killing them would be simpler.

Killing all those people would be difficult. But many of them didn’t
trust Quirrell, who was strong. Finding exactly the right trigger could
cause them all to kill each other.

Then a person leaned over into the field of vision and did something
completely strange, something that belonged to a foreign mode of
thought, for which there was only a single response stored anywhere—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She heard the gasps around her, and they didn’t matter, she maintained
the kiss on those chocolate-smeared lips as the tears welled in her
eyes.

And Harry’s arms came up and pushed her away, and his lips yelled, “I
told you, no kissing!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“I think he’ll be all right now,” the Headmaster said, looking at where
Harry was crying in great wretched sobs as Fawkes crooned over him.
“Excellently done, Miss Granger. Do you know, not even I would have
expected that to actually work?”

The phœnix’s song wasn’t meant for her, Hermione knew, but she could
still be soothed by it, which she needed, because her life was
officially over.

45. Humanism, Part III

FAWKES’S song gently trailed off into nothing.

Harry sat up from where he had lain on the winter-blasted grass, Fawkes
still perched on his shoulder.

There were intakes of breath from all around him.

“Harry,” said Seamus in a wavering voice, “are you all right?”

The peace of the phœnix was still in him, and warmth, from where Fawkes
perched. Warmth, spreading out through him, and the memory of the song,
still alive in the phœnix’s presence. There were terrible things that
had happened to him, terrible thoughts that had passed through him. He
had regained an impossible memory, for all that the Dementor had made
him desecrate it. A strange word kept echoing in his mind. And all of
that could be put on hold for later, while the phœnix still shone red
and gold beneath the setting sun.

Fawkes cawed at him.

“Something I have to do?” Harry said to Fawkes. “What?”

Fawkes bobbed its head in the direction of the Dementor.

Harry looked at the unseeable horror still in its cage, then back at the
phœnix, puzzled.

“Mr Potter?” said Minerva McGonagall’s voice from behind him. “Are you
all right?”

Harry climbed to his feet and turned.

Minerva McGonagall was looking at him, looking very worried; Albus
Dumbledore beside her was studying him carefully; Filius Flitwick
appeared tremendously relieved; and all the students were just plain
staring.

“I think so, Professor McGonagall,” Harry said calmly. He’d almost said
Minerva before managing to stop himself. While Fawkes was on his
shoulder, at least, Harry was fine; it might be that he would collapse a
moment after Fawkes left, but somehow thoughts like that didn’t seem
important. “I think I’m okay.”

There ought to have been cheering, or sighs of relief, or something, but
no-one seemed to know what to say, no-one at all.

The peace of the phœnix lingered.

Harry turned back. “Hermione?” he said.

Everyone with the tiniest smidgen of romance in their hearts held their
breath.

“I don’t really know how to say thank you graciously,” Harry said
quietly, “any more than I know how to apologize. All I can say that if
you’re wondering whether it was the right thing to do, it was.”

The boy and the girl gazed into each other’s eyes.

“Sorry,” Harry said. “About what happens next. If there’s anything I can
do—”

“No,” Hermione said back. “There isn’t. It’s all right, though.” Then
she turned from Harry and walked away, toward the path that led back to
the gates of Hogwarts.

A number of girls gave Harry puzzled looks, and then followed her. As
they went, you could hear the excited questions starting.

Harry looked at them as they left, turned back to look at the other
students. They’d seen him on the ground, screaming, and…

Fawkes nuzzled his cheek, briefly.

…and that would help them, some day, understanding that the
Boy-Who-Lived could also be hurt, could be wretched. So that when they
were hurt and wretched themselves, they would remember seeing Harry
writhing on the ground, and know that their own pain and troubles didn’t
mean they’d never amount to anything. Had the Headmaster calculated
that, when he had let the other students stay and watch?

Harry’s eyes went back to the tall tattered cloak, almost
absent-mindedly, and without really being aware of what he was speaking,
Harry said, “It shouldn’t exist.”

“Ah,” said a dry, precise voice. “I thought you might say that. I am
very sorry to tell you, Mr Potter, that Dementors cannot be killed. Many
have tried.”

“Really?” Harry said, still absent-mindedly. “What did they try?”

“There is a certain extremely dangerous and destructive spell,”
Professor Quirrell said, “which I will not name here; a spell of cursed
fire. It is what you would use to destroy an ancient device such as the
Sorting Hat. It has no effect on Dementors. They are undying.”

“They are not undying,” said the Headmaster. The words mild, the gaze
sharp. “They do not possess eternal life. They are wounds in the world,
and attacking a wound only makes it larger.”

“Hm,” Harry said. “Suppose you threw it into the Sun? Would it be
destroyed?”

“Throw it into the Sun?” squeaked Professor Flitwick, looking like he
wanted to faint.

“It seems unlikely, Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said dryly. “The Sun
is very large, after all; I doubt the Dementor would have much effect on
it. But it is not a test I would like to try, Mr Potter, just in case.”

“I see,” Harry said.

Fawkes cawed a final time, mantled his wings around Harry’s head, and
then launched himself from Harry. Launched himself straight toward the
Dementor, screaming a great piercing cry of defiance that echoed around
the field. And before anyone could react to that, there was a flash of
fire, and Fawkes was gone.

The peace faded, a little.

The warmth faded, a little.

Harry took in a deep breath, let it out again.

“Yep,” Harry said. “Still alive.”

Again that silence, again the absence of cheering; no-one seemed to know
how to respond—

“It is good to know you are fully recovered, Mr Potter,” Professor
Quirrell said firmly, as though to deny any other possibility. “Now, I
believe Miss Ransom was up next?”

That started a bit of an argument, in which Professor Quirrell was right
and everyone else was wrong. The Defence Professor pointed out that,
despite the understandable emotions of all concerned, the chance of a
similar mishap occurring to any other student verged on the
infinitesimal; the more so as they now knew to avoid mischances with
wands. And meanwhile, there were other students who needed to take their
own best chance at casting a corporeal Patronus Charm, or else learn the
feeling of a Dementor so they could flee, and discover their own degree
of vulnerability…

In the end it turned out that Dean Thomas and Ron Weasley of Gryffindor
were the only ones left who were still willing to go anywhere near the
Dementor, which simplified the argument.

Harry glanced in the Dementor’s direction. The word echoed in his mind
again.

All right, Harry thought to himself, if the Dementor is a riddle, what
is the answer?

And just like that, it was obvious.

Harry looked at the tarnished, slightly corroded cage.

He saw what lay beneath the tall, tattered cloak.

That was it, then.

Professor McGonagall came and spoke to Harry. She hadn’t seen the worst
of it, so there was only a slight glitter of water in her eyes. Harry
told her that he needed to talk to her afterwards and ask a question
he’d put off for a while, but that didn’t need to happen right now, if
she was busy. There was a certain look about her which suggested that
she had been pulled away from something important; and Harry observed
this to her, and said that she honestly didn’t need to feel guilty about
leaving. This earned him something of a sharp look, but then leave she
did, hurriedly, with a promise that they would talk later.

Dean Thomas cast his white bear again, even in the Dementor’s presence;
and Ron Weasley put up an adequate shield of sparkling mist. Which
concluded the day, so far as everyone else was concerned, and Professor
Flitwick began to herd the students back to Hogwarts. When it was clear
that Harry meant to stay behind, Professor Flitwick looked at him
quizzically; and Harry, for his part, glanced significantly at
Dumbledore. Harry didn’t know what Professor Flitwick made of that, but
after a sharp gaze of warning, his Head of House departed.

And so remained only Harry, Professor Quirrell, Headmaster Dumbledore,
and an Auror trio.

It would have been better to get rid of the trio first, but Harry
couldn’t think of a good way to do that.

“All right,” said Auror Komodo, “let’s take it back.”

“Excuse me,” Harry said. “I’d like to have another go at the Dementor.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry’s request met with a certain amount of opposition of the you’re
completely insane variety, though it was only Auror Butnaru who actually
said that out loud.

“Fawkes told me to,” Harry said.

This did not overcome all the opposition, despite the look of shock it
produced on Dumbledore’s face. The argument went on, and it was starting
to wear the edges off the phœnix’s remaining peace, which annoyed Harry,
though only a little.

“Look,” Harry said, “I’m pretty sure I know what I was doing wrong
before. There’s a kind of person who has to use a different sort of warm
and happy thought. Just let me try it, okay?”

This did not prove persuasive either.

“I think,” Professor Quirrell said finally, staring at Harry with
narrowed eyes, “that if we do not allow him to do this under
supervision, he may, at some point or another, sneak off and look for a
Dementor on his own. Do I accuse you falsely, Mr Potter?”

There was an appalled pause at this. It seemed like a good time to play
his trump card.

“I don’t mind if the Headmaster keeps his own Patronus up,” Harry said.
For I will be in the presence of a Dementor just the same, Patronus or
no.

There was confusion at this, even Professor Quirrell looked puzzled; but
the Headmaster finally acceded, since it didn’t seem likely that Harry
could be hurt through four Patronuses.

If the Dementor could not reach through your Patronus on some level,
Albus Dumbledore, you would not see a naked man painful to look upon…

Harry didn’t say it out loud, for obvious reasons.

And they began to walk toward the Dementor.

“Headmaster,” Harry said, “suppose the Ravenclaw door asked you this
riddle: What lies at the centre of a Dementor? What would you say?”

“Fear,” said the Headmaster.

It was a simple enough mistake. The Dementor approached, and the fear
came over you. The fear hurt, you felt the fear weakening you, you
wanted the fear to go away.

It was natural to think the fear was the problem.

So they’d concluded that the Dementor was a creature of pure fear, that
there was nothing there to fear but fear itself, that the Dementor
couldn’t hurt you if you weren’t afraid…

But…

What lies at the centre of a Dementor?

Fear.

What is so horrible that the mind refuses to see it?

Fear.

What is impossible to kill?

Fear.

…it didn’t quite fit, once you thought about it.

Though it was clear enough why people would be reluctant to look beyond
the first answer.

People understood fear.

People knew what they were supposed to do about fear.

So, faced with a Dementor, it wouldn’t exactly be comforting to ask:
‘What if the fear is just a side effect rather than the main problem?’

They had come very close to the Dementor’s cage guarded by four
Patronuses, when there came sharp intakes of breath from the three
Aurors and Professor Quirrell. Everyone’s faces turned to look at the
Dementor, seeming to listen; there was horror on Auror Goryanof’s face.

Then Professor Quirrell raised his head, his face hard, and spat toward
the Dementor.

“It did not like having its prey taken from it, I suppose,” Dumbledore
said quietly. “Well. If it becomes necessary, Quirinus, there will
always be a refuge for you at Hogwarts.”

“What did it say?” said Harry.

Every head swung to stare at him.

“You didn’t hear it…?” Dumbledore said.

Harry shook his head.

“It said to me,” said Professor Quirrell, “that it knew me, and that it
would hunt me down some day, wherever I tried to hide.” His face was
rigid, showing no fright.

“Ah,” Harry said. “I wouldn’t worry about that, Professor Quirrell.”
It’s not like Dementors can actually talk, or think; the structure they
have is borrowed from your own mind and expectations…

Now everyone was giving him very strange looks. The Aurors were glancing
nervously at each other, at the Dementor, at Harry.

And they stood directly before the Dementor’s cage.

“They are wounds in the world,” Harry said. “It’s just a wild guess, but
I’m guessing the one who said that was Godric Gryffindor.”

“Yes…” said Dumbledore. “How did you know?”

It is a common misconception, thought Harry, that all the best
rationalists are Sorted into Ravenclaw, leaving none for other Houses.
This is not so; being Sorted into Ravenclaw indicates that your
strongest virtue is curiosity, wondering and desiring to know the true
answer. And this is not the only virtue a rationalist needs. Sometimes
you have to work hard on a problem, and stick to it for a while.
Sometimes you need a clever plan for finding out. And sometimes what you
need more than anything else to see an answer, is the courage to face
it…

Harry’s gaze went to what lay beneath the cloak, the horror far worse
than any decaying mummy. Rowena Ravenclaw might also have known, for it
was an obvious enough riddle once you saw it as a riddle.

And it was also obvious why the Patronuses were animals. The animals
didn’t know, and so were sheltered from the fear.

But Harry knew, and would always know, and would never be able to
forget. He’d tried to teach himself to face reality without flinching,
and though Harry had not yet mastered that art, still those grooves had
been worn into his mind, the learned reflex to look toward the painful
thought instead of away. Harry would never be able to forget by thinking
warm happy thoughts about something else, and that was why the spell
hadn’t worked for him.

So Harry would think a warm happy thought that wasn’t about something
else.

Harry drew forth his wand that Professor Flitwick had returned to him,
put his feet into the beginning stance for the Patronus Charm.

Within his mind, Harry discarded the last remnants of the peace of the
phœnix, put aside the calm, the dreamlike state, remembered instead
Fawkes’s piercing cry, and roused himself for battle. Called upon all
the pieces and elements of himself to awaken. Raised up within himself
all the strength that the Patronus Charm could ever draw upon, to put
himself into the right frame of mind for the final warm and happy
thought; remembered all bright things.

The books his father had bought him.

Mum’s smile when Harry had handmade her a mother’s day card, an
elaborate thing that had used half a pound of spare electronics parts
from the garage to flash lights and beep a little tune, and had taken
him three days to make.

Professor McGonagall telling him that his parents had died well,
protecting him. As they had.

Realizing that Hermione was keeping up with him and even running ahead,
that they could be true rivals and friends.

Coaxing Draco out of the darkness, watching him slowly move toward the
light.

Neville and Seamus and Lavender and Dean and everyone else who looked up
to him, everyone that he would have fought to protect if anything
threatened Hogwarts.

Everything that made life worth living.

His wand rose into the starting position for the Patronus Charm.

Harry thought of the stars, the image that had almost held off the
Dementor even without a Patronus. Only this time, Harry added the
missing ingredient, he’d never truly seen it but he’d seen the pictures
and the video. The Earth, blazing blue and white with reflected sunlight
as it hung in space, amid the black void and the brilliant points of
light. It belonged there, within that image, because it was what gave
everything else its meaning. The Earth was what made the stars
significant, made them more than uncontrolled fusion reactions, because
it was Earth that would some day colonize the galaxy, and fulfil the
promise of the night sky.

Would they still be plagued by Dementors, the children’s children’s
children, the distant descendants of humankind as they strode from star
to star? No. Of course not. The Dementors were only little nuisances,
paling into nothingness in the light of that promise; not unkillable,
not invincible, not even close. You had to put up with little nuisances,
if you were one of the lucky and unlucky few to be born on Earth; on
Ancient Earth, as it would be remembered some day. That too was part of
what it meant to be alive, if you were one of the tiny handful of
sentient beings born into the beginning of all things, before
intelligent life had come fully into its power. That the much vaster
future depended on what you did here, now, in the earliest days of dawn,
when there was still so much darkness to be fought, and temporary
nuisances like Dementors.

Mum and Dad, Hermione’s friendship and Draco’s journey, Neville and
Seamus and Lavender and Dean, the blue sky and brilliant Sun and all
bright things, the Earth, the stars, the promise, everything humanity
was and everything it would become…

On the wand, Harry’s fingers moved into their starting positions; he was
ready, now, to think the right sort of warm and happy thought.

And Harry’s eyes stared directly at that which lay beneath the tattered
cloak, looked straight at that which had been named Dementor. The void,
the emptiness, the hole in the universe, the absence of colour and
space, the open drain through which warmth poured out of the world.

The fear it exuded stole away all happy thoughts, its closeness drained
your power and strength, its kiss would destroy everything that you
were.

I know you now, Harry thought as his wand twitched once, twice, thrice
and four times, as his fingers slid exactly the right distances, I
comprehend your nature, you symbolize Death, through some law of magic
you are a shadow that Death casts into the world.

And Death is not something I will ever embrace.

It is only a childish thing, that the human species has not yet
outgrown.

And some day…

We’ll get over it…

And people won’t have to say goodbye any more…

The wand rose up and levelled straight at the Dementor.

“EXPECTO PATRONUM!”

The thought exploded from him like a breaking dam, surged down his arm
into his wand, burst from it as blazing white light. Light that became
corporeal, took on shape and substance.

A figure with two arms, two legs, and a head, standing upright; the
animal Homo sapiens, the shape of a human being.

Glowing brighter and brighter as Harry poured all his strength into his
spell, blazing with incandescent light brighter than the fading sunset,
the Aurors and Professor Quirrell shielding their eyes in shock—

And some day when the descendants of humanity have spread from star to
star, they won’t tell the children about the history of Ancient Earth
until they’re old enough to bear it; and when they learn they’ll weep to
hear that such a thing as Death had ever once existed!

The figure of a human shone more brilliant now than the noonday Sun, so
radiant that Harry could feel the warmth of it on his skin; and Harry
sent out all his defiance at the shadow of Death, opening all the
floodgates inside him to make that bright shape blaze even brighter and
yet brighter.

You are not invincible, and some day the human species will end you.

I will end you if I can, by the power of mind and magic and science.

I won’t cower in fear of Death, not while I have a chance of winning.

I won’t let Death touch me, I won’t let Death touch the ones I love.

And even if you do end me before I end you,

Another will take my place, and another,

Until the wound in the world is healed at last…

Harry lowered his wand, and the bright figure of a human faded away.

Slowly, he exhaled.

Like waking up from a dream, like opening his eyes after sleep, Harry’s
gaze moved away from the cage, he looked around and saw that everyone
was staring at him.

Albus Dumbledore was staring at him.

Professor Quirrell was staring at him.

The Auror trio was staring at him.

They were all looking at him like they’d just seen him destroy a
Dementor.

The tattered cloak lay empty within the cage.

46. Humanism, Part IV

THE last tip of the Sun was sinking below the horizon, the red light
fading from the treetops, only the blue sky illuminating the six people
standing upon the winter-dried and snow-spotted grass, near a vacant
cage on whose floor lay an empty, tattered cloak.

Harry felt… well, normal again. Sane-ish. The spell hadn’t undone the
day and its damage, hadn’t made the injuries as if they had never been,
but his hurts had been… bandaged, meliorated? It was hard to describe.

Dumbledore was also looking healthier, though not fully restored. The
old wizard’s head turned for a moment, locked eyes with Professor
Quirrell, then looked back to Harry. “Harry,” Dumbledore said, “are you
about to collapse in exhaustion and possibly die?”

“No, strangely enough,” Harry said. “That took something out of me, but
a lot less than I thought it would.” Or maybe it gave something back, as
well as taking… “Honestly, I expected my body to be hitting the ground
with a thud about now.”

There was a distinct body-hitting-the-ground-with-a-thuddish sort of
sound.

“Thank you for taking care of that, Quirinus,” said Dumbledore to
Professor Quirrell, who was now standing above and behind the
unconscious forms of the three Aurors. “I confess I am still feeling a
bit peaky. Though I shall handle the Memory Charms myself.”

Professor Quirrell inclined his head, and then looked at Harry. “I will
omit a good deal of useless incredulity,” said Professor Quirrell,
“remarks to the effect that Merlin himself failed to do that, et cetera.
Let us go straight to asking the important question. What the sweet
slithering snakes was that?”

“The Patronus Charm,” Harry said. “Version 2.0.”

“I rejoice to see that you are your usual self again,” said Dumbledore.
“But you are not going anywhere, young Ravenclaw, until you tell me what
exactly was that warm and happy thought.”

“Hm…” said Harry. He tapped a contemplative finger on his cheek. “I
wonder if I should?”

Professor Quirrell suddenly grinned.

“Please?” said the Headmaster. “Pretty please with sugar on top?”

Harry felt an impulse and decided to go with it. It was dangerous, but
there might not ever be a better opportunity until the end of time.

“Three sodas,” Harry said to his pouch, then looked up at the Defence
Professor and the Headmaster of Hogwarts. “Gentlemen,” Harry said, “I
bought these sodas on my first visit to Platform
Nine-and-Three-Quarters, on the day I entered into Hogwarts. I have been
saving them for special occasions; there is a minor enchantment on them
to ensure they are drunk at the right time. This is the last of my
supply, but I do not think there will ever come a finer occasion. Shall
we?”

Dumbledore took a soda can from Harry, and Harry tossed another to
Professor Quirrell. The two older men each muttered identical charms
over the can and frowned briefly at the result. Harry, for his part,
simply popped the top and drank.

The Defence Professor and the Headmaster of Hogwarts politely followed
suit.

Harry said, “I thought of my absolute rejection of death as the natural
order.”

It might not be the right kind of warm feeling you needed to cast a
Patronus Charm, but it was going into Harry’s Top 10 nonetheless.

The looks he got from the Defence Professor and the Headmaster briefly
made Harry nervous, as the spilled Comed-Tea faded out of existence; but
then the two of them each glanced at the other and both apparently
decided that they couldn’t get away with doing anything really awful to
Harry in the other’s presence.

“Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, “even I know that is not how
things are supposed to work.”

“Indeed,” said Dumbledore. “Explain.”

Harry opened his mouth, and then, as realization hit him, rapidly
snapped his mouth shut again. Godric hadn’t told anyone, nor had Rowena
if she’d known; there might have been any number of wizards who’d
figured it out and kept their mouths shut. You couldn’t forget if you
knew that was what you were trying to do; once you realized how it
worked, the animal form of the Patronus Charm would never work for you
again—and most wizards didn’t have the right upbringing to turn on
Dementors and destroy them—

“Erm, sorry about this,” said Harry. “But I’ve just this instant
realized that explaining would be an incredibly bad idea until you work
some things out on your own.”

“Is that the truth, Harry?” Dumbledore said slowly. “Or are you just
pretending to be wise—”

“Headmaster!” said Professor Quirrell, sounding genuinely shocked.
“Mr Potter has told you that this spell is not spoken of with those who
cannot cast it! You do not press a wizard on such matters!”

“If I told you—” Harry began.

“No,” Professor Quirrell said, sounding rather severe. “You don’t tell
us why, Mr Potter, you simply tell us that we are not to know. If you
wish to devise a hint, you do so carefully, at leisure, not in the midst
of conversation.”

Harry nodded.

“But,” said the Headmaster. “But, but what am I to tell the Ministry?
You can’t just lose a Dementor!”

“Tell them I ate it,” said Professor Quirrell, causing Harry to choke on
the soda he had unthinkingly raised to his lips. “I don’t mind. Shall we
head on back, Mr Potter?”

The two of them began to walk the dirt path back to Hogwarts, leaving
behind Albus Dumbledore staring forlornly at the empty cage and the
three sleeping Aurors awaiting their Memory Charms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Harry Potter and Professor Quirrell

They walked for a while before Professor Quirrell spoke, and all
background noise dropped into silence when he did.

“You are exceptionally good at killing things, my student,” said
Professor Quirrell.

“Thank you,” Harry said sincerely.

“I am not prying,” said Professor Quirrell, “but on the off-chance that
it was only the Headmaster who you did not trust with the secret…?”

Harry considered this. Professor Quirrell already couldn’t cast the
animal Patronus Charm.

But you couldn’t untell a secret, and Harry was a fast enough learner to
realize that he ought to at least think for a while before unleashing
this one upon the world.

Harry shook his head, and Professor Quirrell nodded acceptance.

“Out of curiosity, Professor Quirrell,” said Harry, “if your bringing
the Dementor to Hogwarts had been part of an evil plot, what would have
been its goal?”

“Assassinate Dumbledore while he was weakened,” Professor Quirrell said
without even hesitating. “Hm. The Headmaster told you he was suspicious
of me?”

Harry said nothing for a second while he tried to think of a reply, and
then gave up when he realized he’d already answered.

“Interesting…” Professor Quirrell said. “Mr Potter, it is not out of the
question that there was a plot at work today. Your wand ending up that
close to the Dementor’s cage could have been an accident. Or one of the
Aurors could have been Imperiused, Confunded, or Legilimized to exert an
influence. Flitwick and myself should not be excluded as suspects, in
your calculation. One notes that Professor Snape cancelled all his
classes today, and I suspect he is powerful enough to Disillusion
himself; the Aurors cast detection charms early on, but they did not
repeat them immediately before your turn. But most easily of all,
Mr Potter, the deed could have been plotted by Dumbledore himself; and
if he did, why, he might also take steps in advance to cast your
suspicion elsewhere.”

They walked on for a few steps.

“But why would he?” Harry said.

The Defence Professor stayed quiet a moment, and then said, “Mr Potter,
what steps have you taken to investigate the Headmaster’s character?”

“Not many,” said Harry. He’d only recently realized… “Not nearly
enough.”

“Then I will observe,” said Professor Quirrell, “that you do not find
out all there is to know about a man by asking only his friends.”

Now it was Harry’s turn to walk a few steps in silence on the little
used dirt path that led back to Hogwarts. He’d really been supposed to
know better than that already. Confirmation bias was the technical term;
it meant, among other things, that when you chose your information
sources, there was a notable tendency to choose information sources that
agreed with your current opinions.

“Thank you,” Harry said. “Actually… I didn’t say it earlier, did I?
Thank you for everything. If another Dementor ever threatens you, or for
that matter, slightly annoys you, just let me know and I’ll introduce it
to Mister Glowy Person. I don’t like it when Dementors slightly annoy my
friends.”

That got him an indecipherable glance from Professor Quirrell. “You
destroyed the Dementor because it threatened me?”

“Erm,” Harry said, “I’d sort of decided on it before then, but yes, that
would have been sufficient reason by itself.”

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell. “And what would you have done about
the threat to me if your spell hadn’t worked for destroying the
Dementor?”

“Plan B,” said Harry. “Encase the Dementor in dense metal with a high
melting point, probably tungsten, drop it into an active volcano, and
hope it ends up inside Earth’s mantle. Ah, the whole planet is filled
with molten lava under its surface—”

“Yes,” said Professor Quirrell. “I know.” The Defence Professor was
wearing a very odd smile. “I really should have thought of that myself,
all things considered. Tell me, Mr Potter, if you wanted to lose
something where no-one would ever find it again, where would you put
it?”

Harry considered this question. “I suppose I shouldn’t ask what you’ve
found that needs losing—”

“Quite,” said Professor Quirrell, as Harry had expected; and then,
“Perhaps you will be told when you are older,” which Harry hadn’t.

“Well,” said Harry, “besides trying to get it into the molten core of
the planet, you could bury it in solid rock a kilometre underground in a
randomly selected location—maybe teleport it in, if there’s some way to
do that blindly, or drill a hole and repair the hole afterwards; the
important thing would be not to leave any traces leading there, so it’s
just an anonymous cubic metre somewhere in the Earth’s crust. You could
drop it into the Mariana Trench, that’s the deepest depth of ocean on
the planet—or just pick some random other ocean trench, to make it less
obvious. If you could make it buoyant and invisible, then you could
throw it into the stratosphere. Or ideally you would launch it into
space, with a cloak against detection, and a randomly fluctuating
acceleration factor that would take it out of the Solar System. And
afterwards, of course, you’d Obliviate yourself, so even you didn’t know
exactly where it was.”

The Defence Professor was laughing, and it sounded even odder than his
smile.

“Professor Quirrell?” Harry said.

“All excellent suggestions,” said Professor Quirrell. “But tell me,
Mr Potter, why those exact five?”

“Huh?” said Harry. “They just seemed like the obvious sorts of ideas.”

“Oh?” said Professor Quirrell. “But there is an interesting pattern to
them, you see. One might say it sounds like something of a riddle. I
must admit, Mr Potter, that although it has had its ups and downs, on
the whole, this has been a surprisingly good day.”

And they continued walking down the path that led to the gates of
Hogwarts, quite some distance apart; as Harry, without even thinking
about it, automatically stayed far enough away from the Defence
Professor not to trigger that sense of doom, which for some reason
seemed unusually strong right now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Daphne Greengrass

Hermione had refused to answer any questions, and as soon as they’d
passed the split leading to the Slytherin dungeons, Daphne and Tracey
had peeled off at once, walking as quickly as they could. Rumour
travelled fast in Hogwarts, so they’d have to go to the dungeons right
away if they wanted to be the first to tell everyone the story.

“Now remember,” said Daphne, “don’t just blurt out about the kiss as
soon as we walk in, okay? It works better if we tell the whole story in
order.”

Tracey nodded excitedly.

And as soon as they burst into the Slytherin common room, Tracey Davis
took a deep breath and shouted, “Everyone! Harry Potter couldn’t cast
the Patronus Charm and the Dementor almost ate him and Professor
Quirrell saved him but then Potter was all evil until Granger brought
him back with a kiss! It’s true love for sure!”

It was ordered storytelling of a sort, Daphne supposed.

The news failed to produce the expected reaction. Most of the girls
glanced over and then stayed in their couches, or the boys simply kept
reading in their chairs.

“Yes,” said Pansy sourly, from where she was sitting with Gregory’s feet
in her lap, leaning back and reading what seemed to be a colouring book,
“Millicent already told us.”

How—

“Why didn’t you kiss him first, Tracey?” said Flora and Hestia Carrow
from their own chairs. “Now Potter’s going to marry a mudblood girl! You
could’ve been his true love and married into a rich Noble House and
everything if you’d just kissed him first!”

Tracey’s face was a picture in stunned realization.

“What?” shrieked Daphne. “Love does not work like that!”

“Of course it does,” stated Millicent from where she was practising some
sort of Charm while looking out a window at the swirling waters of the
Hogwarts Lake. “First kiss gets the prince.”

“It wasn’t their first kiss!” shouted Daphne. “Hermione was already his
true love! That’s why she could bring him back!” Then Daphne realized
what she’d just said and winced internally, but as the saying went, you
had to fit the tongue to the ear.

“Whoa, whoa, whoa, what?” said Gregory, swinging his feet off Pansy’s
lap. “What’s this? Miss Bulstrode didn’t tell that part.”

Everyone else was also looking at Daphne, now.

“Oh, yeah,” said Daphne, “Harry shoved her away and shouted, ‘I told
you, no kissing!’ Then Harry screamed like he was dying and Fawkes
started singing to him—I’m not sure which one of those happened first,
actually—”

“That doesn’t sound like true love to me,” said the Carrow twins. “That
sounds like the wrong person kissed him.”

“It was supposed to be me,” whispered Tracey. Her face was still
stunned. “I was supposed to be his true love. Harry Potter was my
general. I should’ve, I should’ve fought Granger for him—”

Daphne spun on Tracey, incensed. “You? Take Harry away from Hermione?”

“Yeah!” said Tracey. “Me!”

“You’re nuts,” Daphne stated with conviction. “Even if you had kissed
him first, you know what that would make you? The sad little lovestruck
girl who dies at the end of Act Two.”

“You take that back!” shouted Tracey.

Meanwhile, Gregory had crossed the room to where Vincent was doing his
homework. “Mr Crabbe,” Gregory said in a low voice, “I think Mr Malfoy
needs to know about this.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Hermione Granger

Hermione stared at the wax-sealed paper, on the surface of which was
inscribed simply the number 42.

I figured out why we couldn’t cast the Patronus Charm, Hermione, it
doesn’t have anything to do with us not being happy enough. But I can’t
tell you. I couldn’t even tell the Headmaster. It needs to be even more
secret than partial Transfiguration, for now, anyway. But if you ever
need to fight Dementors, the secret is written here, cryptically, so
that if someone doesn’t know it’s about Dementors and the Patronus
Charm, they won’t know what it means…

She’d told Harry about seeing him dying, her parents dying, all her
friends dying, everyone dying. She hadn’t told him about her terror of
dying alone, somehow that was still too painful.

Harry had told her about remembering his parents dying, and that he’d
thought it was funny.

There’s no light in the place the Dementor takes you, Hermione. No
warmth. No caring. It’s somewhere that you can’t even understand
happiness. There’s pain, and fear, and those can still drive you. You
can hate, and take pleasure in destroying what you hate. You can laugh,
when you see other people hurting. But you can’t ever be happy, you
can’t even remember what it is that isn’t there any more… I don’t think
there’s any way I can ever explain just what you saved me from. I’m
usually ashamed to put people to trouble, I usually can’t stand it when
people make sacrifices for me, but this one time I’ll say that no matter
what it ends up costing you to have kissed me, don’t ever doubt for a
second that it was the right thing to do.

Hermione hadn’t realized how little the Dementor had touched her, how
small and shallow had been the darkness into which it had taken her.

She’d seen everyone dying, and that had still been able to hurt.

Hermione put the paper back into her pouch, like a good girl ought to.

She’d really wanted to read it, though.

She was frightened of Dementors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Minerva McGonagall

She felt frozen; she shouldn’t have been so shocked, she shouldn’t have
found Harry so hard to face, but after what he’d been through… She had
searched the young boy in front of her for any signs of Dementation, and
failed to find them. But something about the calm with which he had
asked such a foreboding question seemed deeply worrying. “Mr Potter, I
can’t possibly speak of such matters without the Headmaster’s
permission!”

The boy in her office took this in without changing expression. “I would
prefer not to disturb the Headmaster over this matter,” Harry Potter
said calmly. “I insist on not disturbing him, in fact, and you did
promise that our conversation would be kept private. So let me put it
this way. I know that there was, in fact, a prophecy. I know that you
are the one who originally heard it from Professor Trelawney. I know
that the prophecy identified the child of James and Lily as someone
dangerous to the Dark Lord. And I know who I am, indeed everyone now
knows who I am, so you are revealing nothing new or dangerous, if you
tell me only this: what was the exact wording which identified me, the
child of James and Lily?”

Trelawney’s hollow voice echoed in her mind—

BORN TO THOSE WHO HAVE THRICE DEFIED HIM,
BORN AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES…

“Harry,” said Professor McGonagall, “I can’t possibly tell you that!” It
chilled her to the bone that Harry knew so much already, she couldn’t
imagine how Harry had learned—

The boy looked at her with strange, sorrowful eyes. “Can you not sneeze
without the Headmaster’s permission, Professor McGonagall? For I do
promise to you that I have good reason to ask, and good reason to keep
the question private.”

“Please don’t, Harry,” she whispered.

“All right,” Harry said. “One simple question. Please. Was the Potter
family mentioned by name? Does the prophecy literally say ‘Potter’?”

She stared at Harry for a while. She couldn’t have said why or where she
got the sense that this was a critical point, that she could not lightly
refuse the request, nor lightly accede to it—

“No,” she finally said. “Please, Harry, don’t ask any more.”

The boy smiled, a little sadly it seemed, and said, “Thank you, Minerva.
You are a good woman and true.”

And while her mouth was still open in utter shock, Harry Potter got up
and left the office; and only then did she realize that Harry had taken
her refusal as an answer, and the true answer at that—

Harry closed the door behind himself.

The logic had presented itself with a strange diamond-like clarity.
Harry couldn’t have said if it had come to him during Fawkes’s singing,
or maybe even before.

Lord Voldemort had killed James Potter. He had preferred to spare Lily
Potter’s life. He had continued his attack, therefore, with the sole
purpose of killing their infant child.

Dark Lords were not usually scared of infant children.

So there was a prophecy about Harry Potter being dangerous to Lord
Voldemort, and Lord Voldemort had known that prophecy.

“I give you this rare chance to flee. But I will not trouble myself to
subdue you, and your death here will not save your child. Step aside,
foolish woman, if you have any sense in you at all!”

Had it been a whim, to give her that chance? But then Lord Voldemort
would not have tried to persuade her. Had the prophecy warned Lord
Voldemort against killing Lily Potter? Then Lord Voldemort would have
troubled himself to subdue her. Lord Voldemort had been mildly inclined
not to kill Lily Potter. The preference had been stronger than a whim,
but not as strong as a warning.

So suppose that someone whom Lord Voldemort considered a lesser ally or
servant, useful but not indispensable, had begged the Dark Lord to spare
Lily’s life. Lily’s, but not James’s.

This person had known that Lord Voldemort would attack the house of the
Potters. Had known both the prophecy, and the fact that the Dark Lord
knew it. Otherwise he would not have begged Lily’s life.

According to Professor McGonagall, besides herself, the other two who
knew of the prophecy were Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape.

Severus Snape, who had loved Lily before she was Lily Potter, and hated
James.

Severus, then, had learned of the prophecy, and told it to the Dark
Lord. Which he had done because the prophecy had not described the
Potters by name. It had been a riddle, and Severus had solved that
riddle only too late.

But if Severus had been the first to hear the prophecy, and disposed to
tell it to the Dark Lord, then why would he also have told Dumbledore or
Professor McGonagall?

Therefore Dumbledore or Professor McGonagall had heard it first.

The Headmaster of Hogwarts had no obvious reason to tell the
Transfiguration Professor about an extremely sensitive and crucial
prophecy. But the Transfiguration Professor had every reason to tell the
Headmaster.

It seemed likely, then, that Professor McGonagall had been the first to
hear it.

The prior probabilities said that it had been Professor Trelawney,
Hogwarts’s resident seer. Seers were rare, so if you counted up most of
the seconds Professor McGonagall had spent in the presence of a seer
over the course of her lifetime, most of those seer-seconds would be
Trelawney-seconds.

Professor McGonagall had told Dumbledore, and would have told no-one
else about the prophecy without permission.

Therefore, it was Albus Dumbledore who had arranged for Severus Snape to
somehow learn of the prophecy. And Dumbledore himself had solved the
riddle successfully, or he would not have selected Severus, who had once
loved Lily, as the intermediary.

Dumbledore had deliberately arranged for Lord Voldemort to hear about
the prophecy, in hopes of luring him to his death. Perhaps Dumbledore
had arranged for Severus to learn only some of the prophecy, or there
were other prophecies of which Severus had remained innocent… somehow
Dumbledore had known that an immediate attack on the Potters would still
lead to Lord Voldemort’s immediate defeat, although Lord Voldemort
himself had not believed this. Or maybe that had just been a lucky
stroke of Dumbledore’s insanity, his taste for bizarre plots…

Severus had ended up serving Dumbledore afterwards; perhaps the Death
Eaters would not look kindly on Severus if Dumbledore revealed his role
in their defeat.

Dumbledore had tried to arrange for Harry’s mother to be spared. But
that part of his plot had failed. And he had knowingly condemned James
Potter to his death.

Dumbledore was responsible for the deaths of Harry’s parents. If the
whole chain of logic was correct. Harry could not, in justice, say that
successfully ending the Wizarding War did not count as extenuating
circumstances. But somehow this still… bothered him a great deal.

And it was time and past time to ask Draco Malfoy what the other side of
that war had to say about the character of Albus Percival Wulfric Brian
Dumbledore.

47. Personhood Theory

THERE comes a point in every plot where the victim starts to suspect;
and looks back, and sees a trail of events all pointing in a single
direction. And when that point comes, Father had explained, the prospect
of the loss may seem so unbearable, and admitting themselves tricked may
seem so humiliating, that the victim will yet deny the plot, and the
game may continue long after.

Father had warned Draco not to do that again.

First, though, he’d let Mr Avery finish eating all of the cookies he’d
swindled from Draco, while Draco watched and cried. The whole lovely jar
of cookies that Father had given him just a few hours earlier, for Draco
had lost all of them to Mr Avery, down to the very last one.

So it was a familiar feeling that Draco had felt in the pit of his
stomach, when Gregory told him about The Kiss.

Sometimes you looked back, and saw things…

(In a lightless classroom—you couldn’t quite call it unused any more,
since it’d seen weekly use over the last few months—a boy sat enshrouded
in a hooded cowl, with an unlighted crystal globe on the desk in front
of him. Thinking in silence, thinking in darkness, waiting for an
opening door to let in the light.)

Harry had shoved Granger away and said, I told you, no kissing!

Harry would probably say something like, She just did it to annoy me,
last time, just like she made me go on that date.

But the verified story was that Granger had been willing to face the
Dementor again in order to help Harry; that she had kissed Harry,
crying, when he was lost in the depths of Dementation; and that her kiss
had brought him back.

That didn’t sound like rivalry, even friendly rivalry.

That sounded like the kind of friendship you usually didn’t see even in
plays.

Then why had Harry made his friend climb the icy walls of Hogwarts?

Because that was the sort of thing Harry Potter did to his friends?

Father had told Draco that to fathom a strange plot, one technique was
to look at what ended up happening, assume it was the intended result,
and ask who benefited.

What had ended up happening as the result of Draco and Granger fighting
Harry Potter together… was that Draco had started to feel a lot
friendlier toward Granger.

Who benefited from the scion of Malfoy becoming friends with a mudblood
witch?

Who benefited, that was famous for exactly that sort of plot?

Who benefited, that could possibly be pulling Harry Potter’s strings?

Dumbledore.

And if that was true then Draco would have to go to Father and tell him
everything, no matter what happened after that, Draco couldn’t imagine
what would happen after that, it was awful beyond imagining. Which made
him want to cling desperately to the last shred of hope that it wasn’t
all what it looked like…

…Draco remembered that, too, from Mr Avery’s lesson.

Draco hadn’t planned to confront Harry yet. He was still trying to think
of an experimental test, something that Harry wouldn’t just see through
and fake. But then Vincent had come with the message that Harry wanted
to meet early this week, on Friday instead of Saturday.

And so here Draco was, in a dark classroom, an unlit crystal globe on
his desk, waiting.

Minutes passed.

Footsteps approached.

The door made a gentle creak as it swung open into the classroom,
revealing Harry Potter dressed in his own hood and cowl; Harry stepped
forward into the dark classroom, and the sturdy door closed behind him
with a faint click.

Draco tapped the crystal globe, and the classroom lit with bright green
light. Green light projected shadows of the desks onto the floor, and
glared back at him from the curved chair-backs, photons bouncing off the
wood in such fashion that the angle of incidence equalled the angle of
reflection.

At least that much of what he’d learned wasn’t likely to be a lie.

Harry had flinched as the light went on, halting for a moment, then
resumed his approach. “Hello, Draco,” Harry said quietly, drawing back
his hood as he came to Draco’s desk. “Thank you for coming, I know it’s
not our usual time—”

“You’re welcome,” Draco said flatly.

Harry dragged one of the chairs to face Draco across his desk, the legs
making a slight screeching sound on the floor. He spun the chair so that
it was facing the wrong way, and sat down straddling it, his arms folded
across the back of the chair. The boy’s face was pensive, frowning,
serious, looking very adult even for Harry Potter.

“I have an important question to ask you,” said Harry, “but there’s
something else I want us to do before that.”

Draco said nothing, feeling a certain weariness. Part of him just wanted
it all to be over with already.

“Tell me, Draco,” said Harry. “Why don’t Muggles ever leave ghosts
behind when they die?”

“Because Muggles don’t have souls, obviously,” Draco said. He didn’t
even realize until after he’d said it that it might contradict Harry’s
politics, and then he didn’t care. Besides, it was obvious.

Harry’s face showed no surprise. “Before I ask my important question, I
want to see if you can learn the Patronus Charm.”

For a moment the sheer non sequitur stumped Draco. Good old
impossible-to-predict-or-understand Harry Potter. There were times when
Draco wondered whether Harry was deliberately this disorienting as a
tactic.

Then Draco understood, and shoved himself up and away from his desk in a
single angry motion. That was it. It was over. “Like Dumbledore’s
servants,” he spat.

“Like Salazar Slytherin,” Harry said steadily.

Draco almost stumbled over his own feet in the middle of his first
stride toward the door.

Slowly, Draco turned back toward Harry.

“I don’t know where you came up with that,” said Draco, “but it’s wrong,
everyone knows the Patronus Charm is a Gryffindor spell—”

“Salazar Slytherin could cast a corporeal Patronus Charm,” Harry said.
Harry’s hand darted into his robes, brought out a book whose title was
written as white on green, and so almost impossible to read in the green
light; but it looked old. “I discovered that when I was researching the
Patronus Charm before. And I found the original reference and checked
the book out of the library just in case you didn’t believe me. The
author of this book doesn’t think there’s anything unusual about Salazar
being able to cast a Patronus, either; the belief that Slytherins can’t
do that must be recent. And as a further historical note, though I don’t
have the book with me, Godric Gryffindor never could.”

After the first six times Draco had tried calling Harry’s bluff, on six
successively more ridiculous occasions, he’d realized that Harry just
didn’t lie about what was written in books. Still, when Harry’s hands
opened the book and laid it out to the place of a bookmark, Draco leaned
over and studied the place where Harry’s finger pointed.

Then the fires of Ravenclaw fell upon the darkness that had cloaked the
left wing of Lord Foul’s army, breaking it, and it was revealed that the
Lord Gryffindor had spoken true; the fear they all had felt was not
natural in its source, but coming from thrice a dozen Dementors, who had
been promised the souls of the defeated. At once the Lady Hufflepuff and
Lord Slytherin brought forth their Patronuses, a vast angry badger and a
bright silver serpent, and the defenders lifted their heads as the
shadow passed from their hearts. And Lady Ravenclaw laughed, remarking
that Lord Foul was a great fool, for now his own army would be subject
to the fear, but not the defenders of Hogwarts. Yet the Lord Slytherin
said, “No fool he, that much I know.” And the Lord Gryffindor beside him
studied the battlefield with a frown upon his face…

Draco looked back up. “So?”

Harry closed the book and put it into his pouch. “Chaos and Sunshine
both have soldiers that can cast corporeal Patronus Charms. Corporeal
Patronuses can be used to convey messages. If you can’t learn the spell,
Dragon Army will be at a severe military disadvantage—”

Draco didn’t care about that right now, and told Harry so. His voice was
sharper than it probably should have been.

Harry didn’t blink. “Then I’m calling in the favour you owe me from that
time I stopped a riot from breaking out, on our first day of broomstick
lessons. I’m going to try to teach you the Patronus Charm, and for my
favour, I want you to do your honest best to learn and cast it. I trust
to the honour of House Malfoy that you will.”

Draco felt that certain weariness again. If Harry had asked at any other
time, it would have been a fair return on favour owed, given that it
wasn’t actually a Gryffindor spell. But…

“Why?” Draco said.

“To find out whether you can do this thing that Salazar Slytherin could
do,” Harry said evenly. “This is an experimental test, and I will not
tell you what it means until after you have done it. Will you?”

…It probably was a good idea to discharge that favour on something
innocuous, all the more so if it was time to break with Harry Potter.
“All right.”

Harry drew a wand from his robes, and laid it against the globe. “Not
really the best colour for learning the Patronus Charm,” Harry said.
“Green light the exact shade of the Killing Curse, I mean. But silver is
a Slytherin colour too, isn’t it? Dulak.” The light went out, and Harry
whispered the first two phrases of the Continual Light enchantment,
recasting that part of it, though neither of them could have cast the
whole thing by themselves. Then Harry tapped the globe again, and the
room lit with a silver radiance, brilliant but still soft and gentle.
Colour returned to the desks and chairs, and to Harry’s slightly sweaty
face beneath his shock of black hair.

It took that long for Draco to realize the implication. “You saw a
Killing Curse cast since the last time we met? When—how—”

“Cast the Patronus Charm,” Harry said, looking more serious than ever,
“and I’ll tell you.”

Draco pressed his hands to his eyes, shutting out the silver light. “You
know, I really should remember that you’re too weird for any normal
plots!”

Within his self-imposed darkness, he heard the sound of Harry
snickering.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry watched closely as Draco finished his latest run-through of the
preliminary gestures, the part of the spell that was difficult to learn;
the final brandish and the pronunciation didn’t have to be precise. All
three of the last runs had been perfect as far as Harry could see. Harry
had also felt an odd impulse to adjust things that Mr Lupin hadn’t said
anything about, like the angle of Draco’s elbow or the direction his
foot was pointing; it could have been entirely his own imagination, and
probably was, but Harry had decided to go with it just in case.

“All right,” Harry said quietly. There was a tension in his chest that
made it a little hard to speak. “Now we don’t have a Dementor here, but
that’s all right. We won’t need one. Draco, when your father spoke to me
at the train station, he said that you were the one thing in the world
that was most precious to him, and he threatened to throw away all his
other plans to take vengeance on me, if ever you came to harm.”

“He… what?” There was a catch in Draco’s voice, and a strange look on
his face. “Why are you telling me that?”

“Why wouldn’t I?” Harry didn’t let his expression change, though he
could guess what Draco was thinking; that Harry had been plotting to
separate Draco from his father, and shouldn’t be saying anything that
would bring them closer together. “There’s always been just one person
who matters most to you, and I know exactly what warm and happy thought
will let you cast the Patronus Charm. You told it to me at the train
station before the first day of school. Once you fell off a broomstick
and broke your ribs. It hurt more than anything you’d ever felt, and you
thought you were going to die. Pretend that fear is coming from a
Dementor, standing in front of you, wearing a tattered black cloak,
looking like a dead thing left in water. And then cast the Patronus
Charm, and when you brandish the wand to drive the Dementor away, think
of how your father held your hand, so that you wouldn’t be afraid; and
then think of how much he loves you, and how much you love him, and put
it all into your voice when you say Expecto Patronum. For the honour of
House Malfoy, and not just because you promised me a favour. Show me you
didn’t lie to me that day in the train station when you told me Lucius
was a good father. Show me you can do what Salazar Slytherin could do.”

And Harry stepped backward, behind Draco, out of Draco’s field of
vision, so that Draco only faced the dusty old teacher’s desk and
blackboard at the front of the unused classroom.

Draco cast one look behind him, that strange look still on his face, and
then turned away to face forward. Harry saw the exhalation, the
inhalation. The wand twitched once, twice, thrice, and four times.
Draco’s fingers slid along the wand, exactly the right distances—

Draco lowered his wand.

“This is too—” Draco said, “I can’t think this right, while you’re
watching—”

Harry turned around and started walking toward the door. “I’ll come back
in a minute,” Harry said. “Just hold to your happy thought, and the
Patronus will stay.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

From behind Draco came the sound of the door opening again.

Draco heard Harry’s footsteps entering the classroom, but Draco didn’t
turn to look.

Harry didn’t say anything either. The silence stretched.

Finally—

“What does this mean?” Draco said. His voice wavered a bit.

“It means you love your father,” Harry’s voice said. Which was just what
Draco had been thinking, and trying not to cry in front of Harry. It was
too right, just too right—

Before Draco, on the floor, was the shining form of a snake that Draco
recognized; a Blue Krait, a snake first brought to their manor by Lord
Abraxas Malfoy after a visit to some faraway land, and Father had kept a
Blue Krait in the ophidarium ever since. The thing about the Blue Krait
was that the bite wouldn’t hurt much. Father had said that, and told
Draco that he was never allowed to pet the snake, no matter who was
watching. The venom killed your nerves so fast that you didn’t have time
to feel pain as the poison spread. You could die of it even after using
Healing Charms. It ate other snakes. It was as Slytherin as any creature
could possibly be.

That was why a Blue Krait head had been forged into the handle of
Father’s cane.

The bright snake darted out its tongue, which was also silver; and
seemed to smile somehow, in a warmer way than any reptile should.

And then Draco realized—

“But,” Draco said, still staring at the beautifully radiant snake, “you
can’t cast the Patronus Charm.” Now that Draco had cast it himself, he
understood why that was important. You could be evil, like Dumbledore,
and still cast the Patronus Charm, so long as you had something bright
left inside you. But if Harry Potter didn’t have a single thought inside
him that shone like that—

“The Patronus Charm is more complicated than you think, Draco,” Harry
said seriously. “Not everyone who fails at casting it is a bad person,
or even unhappy. But anyway, I can cast it. I did it on my second try,
after I realized what I’d done wrong facing the Dementor my first time.
But, well, my life gets a little peculiar sometimes, and my Patronus
came out strange, and I’m keeping it a secret for now—”

“Am I supposed to just believe that?”

“You can ask Professor Quirrell if you don’t believe me,” said Harry.
“Ask him whether Harry Potter can cast a corporeal Patronus, and tell
him that I told you to ask. He’d know the request was from me, no-one
else would know.”

Oh, and now Draco was to trust Professor Quirrell? Still, knowing Harry,
it might be true; and Professor Quirrell wouldn’t lie for trivial
reasons.

The glowing snake turned its head back and forth, as though seeking a
prey that wasn’t there, and then coiled itself into a circle, as though
to rest.

“I wonder,” Harry said softly, “when it was, which year, which
generation, that Slytherins stopped trying to learn the Patronus Charm.
When it was that people started to think, that Slytherins themselves
started to think, that being cunning and ambitious was the same as being
cold and unhappy. And if Salazar knew that his students didn’t even
bother showing up to learn the Patronus Charm any more, I wonder, would
he wish that he’d never been born? I wonder how it all went wrong, when
Slytherin’s House went wrong.”

The shining creature winked out, the turmoil rising in Draco making it
impossible to sustain the Charm. Draco spun on Harry, he had to control
himself not to raise his wand. “What do you know about Slytherin House
or Salazar Slytherin? You were never Sorted into my House, what gives
you the right to—”

And that was when Draco finally realized.

“You did get Sorted into Slytherin!” Draco said. “You did, and
afterwards you, you somehow, you snapped your fingers—” Draco had once
asked Father if it would be cleverer to get Sorted into some other House
so that everyone would trust him, and Father had smiled and said that
he’d thought of that too at Draco’s age, but there was no way to fool
the Sorting Hat…

…not until Harry Potter came along.

How had he ever bought for one minute that Harry was a Ravenclaw?

“An interesting hypothesis,” Harry said equably. “Do you know, you’re
the second person in Hogwarts to come up with a theory along those
lines? At least you’re the second that’s actually said so to my face—”

“Snape,” Draco said with certainty. His Head of House was no fool.

“Professor Quirrell, of course,” said Harry. “Though come to think,
Severus did ask me how I managed to stay out of his House, and whether I
had something the Sorting Hat wanted. I suppose you could say you’re
number three. Oh, but Professor Quirrell’s theory was a little different
than yours, though. May I have your word not to repeat it?”

Draco nodded without even really thinking about it. What was he supposed
to do, say no?

“Professor Quirrell thought that Dumbledore wasn’t happy with the Hat’s
choice for the Boy-Who-Lived.”

And the instant Harry said it, Draco knew, he knew that it was true, it
was just obvious. Who did Dumbledore even think he was fooling?

…well, besides every single other person in Hogwarts except Snape and
Quirrell, Harry might even believe it himself…

Draco stumbled back over to his desk in something of a daze, and sat
down hard enough to hurt slightly. This sort of thing happened around
once a month with Harry, and it hadn’t happened yet in January, so it
was time.

His fellow Slytherin, who might or might not think himself a Ravenclaw,
sat back down in the chair he’d used earlier, now sitting on it
crosswise, and looking up intently at Draco.

Draco didn’t know what he should be doing now, whether he should be
trying to persuade the lost Slytherin boy that, no, he wasn’t actually a
Ravenclaw… or trying to figure out whether Harry was in league with
Dumbledore, though that suddenly seemed less likely… but then why had
Harry set up the whole thing with him and Granger…

He really should have remembered that Harry was too weird for any normal
plots.

“Harry,” Draco said. “Did you deliberately antagonize me and General
Sunshine just so we’d work together against you?”

Harry nodded without hesitation, as though it was the most normal thing
in the world, and nothing to be ashamed of.

“The whole thing with the gloves and making us climb up the walls of
Hogwarts, the only point was to make me and Granger more friendly toward
each other. And even before then. You’ve been plotting it for a really
long time. Since the beginning.”

Again the nod.

“WHYYYYY?”

Harry’s eyebrows lifted for a moment, the only reaction he showed to
Draco shrieking so loudly in the closed classroom that it hurt his own
ears. WHY, WHY, WHY did Harry Potter DO this sort of thing…

Then Harry said, “So that Slytherins will be able to cast the Patronus
Charm again.”

“That… doesn’t… make…SENSE!” Draco was aware that he was losing control
of his voice, but he didn’t seem able to stop himself. “What does that
have to do with Granger?”

“Patterns,” Harry said. His face was very serious now, and very grave.
“Like a quarter of children born to Squib couples being wizards. A
simple, unmistakable pattern you would recognize instantly, if you knew
what you were looking at; even though, if you didn’t know, you wouldn’t
even realize it was a clue. The poison in Slytherin House is something
that’s been seen before in the Muggle world. This is an advance
prediction, Draco, I could have written it down for you before our first
day of school, just from hearing you talk in King’s Cross Station. Let
me describe some really pathetic sorts of people that hang around at
your father’s political rallies, pureblood families that would never be
invited to dinner at Malfoy Manor. Bearing in mind that I’ve never met
them, I’m just predicting it from recognizing the pattern of what’s
happening to Slytherin House—”

And Harry Potter proceeded to describe the Parkinsons and Montagues and
Boles with a calmly cutting accuracy that Draco wouldn’t have dared
think to himself in case there was a Legilimens around, it was beyond
insult, they would kill Harry if they ever heard…

“To sum up,” Harry finished, “they don’t have any power themselves. They
don’t have any wealth themselves. If they didn’t have Muggle-borns to
hate, if all the Muggle-borns vanished the way they say they want,
they’d wake up one morning and find they had nothing. But so long as
they can say purebloods are superior, they can feel superior themselves,
they can feel like part of the master class. Even though your father
would never dream of inviting them to dinner, even though there’s not
one Galleon in their vaults, even if they did worse on their OWLs than
the worst Muggle-born in Hogwarts. Even if they can’t cast the Patronus
Charm any more. Everything is the Muggle-borns’ fault to them, they have
someone besides themselves to blame for their own failures, and that
makes them even weaker. That’s what Slytherin House is becoming,
pathetic, and the root of the problem is hating Muggle-borns.”

“Salazar Slytherin himself said that mudbloods needed to be cast out!
That they were weakening our blood—” Draco’s voice had risen to a shout.

“Salazar was wrong as a question of simple fact! You know that, Draco!
And that hatred is poisoning your whole House, you couldn’t cast the
Patronus Charm using a thought like that!”

“Then why could Salazar Slytherin cast the Patronus Charm?”

Harry was wiping sweat from his forehead. “Because things have changed
between then and now! Listen, Draco, three hundred years ago you could
find great scientists, as great as Salazar in their own way, who would
have told you that some other Muggles were inferior because of their
skin colour—”

“Skin colour?” said Draco.

“I know, skin colour instead of anything important like blood purity,
isn’t it ridiculous? But then something in the world changed, and now
you can’t find any great scientists who still think skin colour should
matter, only saddos like the ones I told you about. Salazar Slytherin
made the mistake when everyone else was making it, because he grew up
believing it, not because he was desperate for someone to hate. There
were a few people who did better than everyone else around them, and
they were exceptionally good. But the ones who just accepted what
everyone else thought weren’t exceptionally evil. The sad fact is that
most people just don’t notice a moral issue at all unless someone else
is pointing it out to them; and once they’re as old as Salazar was when
he met Godric, they’ve lost the ability to change their minds. Only then
Hogwarts was built, and Hogwarts started sending acceptance letters to
Muggle-borns like Godric insisted, and more and more people began to
notice that Muggle-borns weren’t any different. Now it’s a big political
issue instead of something that everyone just believes without thinking
about it. And the correct answer is that Muggle-borns aren’t any weaker
than purebloods. So now the people who end up siding with what Salazar
once believed, are either people who grew up in very closed pureblood
environments like you, or people who are so pathetic themselves that
they’re desperate for someone to feel superior to, people who love to
hate.”

“That doesn’t… that doesn’t sound right…” Draco’s voice said. His ears
listened, and wondered that he couldn’t come up with anything better to
say.

“It doesn’t? Draco, you know now there’s nothing wrong with Hermione
Granger. You had trouble dropping her off a roof, I hear. Even though
you knew she’d taken a Feather-Falling Potion, even though you knew she
was safe. What sort of person do you think wants to kill her, not for
any wrong she did to them, just because she’s a Muggle-born? Even though
she’s, she’s just a young girl who would help them with their homework
in a second, if they ever asked her,” Harry’s voice broke, “what sort of
person wants her to die?”

Father—

Draco felt split in two, he seemed to be having a problem with dual
vision, Granger is a mudblood, she should die and a girl hanging from
his hand on the rooftop, like seeing double, seeing double—

“And anyone who doesn’t want Hermione Granger to die, won’t want to hang
around the sort of people who do! That’s all people think Slytherin is
now, not clever planning, not trying to achieve greatness, just hating
Muggle-borns! I paid Morag a Sickle to ask Padma why she hadn’t gone to
Slytherin, we both know she got the option. And Morag told me that Padma
just gave her a look and said that she wasn’t Pansy Parkinson. You see?
The best students with the virtues of more than one House, the students
with choices, they go under the Hat thinking anywhere but Slytherin, and
someone like Padma ends up in Ravenclaw. And… I think the Sorting Hat
tries to maintain a balance in the Sorting, so it fills out the ranks of
Slytherin with anyone who isn’t repelled by all the hatred. So instead
of Padma Patil, Slytherin gets Pansy Parkinson. She’s not very cunning,
and she’s not very ambitious, but she’s the sort of person who doesn’t
mind what Slytherin is turning into. And the more Padmas go to Ravenclaw
and the more Pansies go to Slytherin, the more the process accelerates.
It’s destroying Slytherin House, Draco!”

It had a ring of awful truth, Padma had belonged in Slytherin… and
instead Slytherin got Pansy… Father rallied lesser families like the
Parkinsons because they were convenient sources of support, but Father
hadn’t realized the consequences of associating Slytherin’s name with
them…

“I can’t—” Draco said, but he wasn’t even sure what he couldn’t do—“What
do you want from me?”

“I’m not sure how to heal Slytherin House,” Harry said slowly. “But I
know it’s something you and I will end up having to do. It took
centuries for science to dawn over the Muggle world, it only happened
slowly, but the stronger science got, the further that sort of hatred
retreated.” Harry’s voice was quiet, now. “I don’t know exactly why it
worked that way, but that’s how it happened historically. As though
there’s something in science like the shine of the Patronus Charm,
driving back all sorts of darkness and madness, not right away, but it
seems to follow wherever science goes. The Enlightenment, that was what
it was called in the Muggle world. It has something to do with seeking
the truth, I think… with being able to change your mind from what you
grew up believing… with thinking logically, realizing that there’s no
reason to hate someone because their skin is a different colour, just
like there’s no reason to hate Hermione Granger… or maybe there’s
something to it that even I don’t understand. But the Enlightenment is
something that you and I belong to now, both of us. Fixing Slytherin
House is just one of the things we have to do.”

“Let me think,” Draco said, his voice coming out in something of a
croak, “please,” and he rested his head in his hands, and thought.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco thought for a while, with his palms over his eyes to shut out the
world, no sound but his and Harry’s breathing. All the persuasive
reasonableness of what Harry said, the evident grains of truth that it
contained; and against that, the obvious, the perfectly and entirely
obvious hypothesis about what was really going on…

After a time, Draco finally raised his head.

“It sounds right,” Draco said quietly.

A huge smile broke out on Harry’s face.

“So,” Draco continued, “is this where you bring me to Dumbledore, to
make it official?”

He kept his voice very casual as he said it.

“Oh, yeah,” Harry said. “That was the thing I was going to ask you
about, actually—”

Draco’s blood froze in his veins, froze solid and shattered—

“Professor Quirrell said something to me that got me thinking, and,
well, no matter how you answer this question, I’m already stupid for
having not asked you a lot earlier. Everyone in Gryffindor thinks
Dumbledore is a saint, the Hufflepuffs think he’s crazy, the Ravenclaws
are all proud of themselves for having worked out that he’s only
pretending to be crazy, but I never asked anyone in Slytherin. I’m
supposed to know better than to make that sort of mistake. But if even
you think Dumbledore’s okay to conspire with on fixing Slytherin House,
I guess I didn’t miss anything important.”

…

…

…

“You know,” Draco said, his voice remarkably calm, all things
considered, “every time I wonder if you do things like this just to
annoy me, I tell myself that it has to be accidental, no-one could
possibly do this sort of thing on purpose even if they tried until blood
trickled out of their ears. That’s the only reason I’m not going to
strangle you now.”

“Huh?”

And then strangle himself, because Harry had grown up with Muggles, and
then Dumbledore had smoothly diverted him from Slytherin to Ravenclaw,
so it was perfectly plausible that Harry might not know anything, and
Draco had never thought to tell him.

Or else Harry had guessed that Draco wouldn’t join up with Dumbledore so
readily, and this itself was just the next step of Dumbledore’s plan…

But if Harry really didn’t know about Dumbledore, then warning him had
to take precedence over everything.

“All right,” Draco said, after he’d had a chance to organize his
thoughts. “I don’t know where to start, so I’ll just start somewhere.”
Draco drew a deep breath. This was going to take a while. “Dumbledore
murdered his little sister, and got away with it because his brother
wouldn’t testify against him—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry listened with increasing worry and dismay. Harry had been
prepared, he’d thought, to take the blood purist side of the story with
a grain of salt. The trouble was that even after you added an enormous
amount of salt, it still didn’t sound good.

Dumbledore’s father had been convicted of using Unforgivable Curses on
children, and died in Azkaban. That was no sin of Dumbledore’s, but it
would be a matter of public record. Harry could check that part, and see
whether all of this had been made up out of thin air by the blood
purists.

Dumbledore’s mother had died mysteriously, shortly before his younger
sister died in what the Aurors had ruled to be murder. Supposedly that
sister had been brutalized by Muggles and never spoken again after that;
which, Draco pointed out, sounded remarkably like a botched Obliviation.

After Harry’s first few interruptions, Draco had seemed to pick up on
the general principle, and was now presenting the observations first and
the inferences afterwards.

“—so you don’t have to take my word for it,” said Draco, “you can see
it, right? Anyone in Slytherin can. Dumbledore waited to fight his duel
with Grindelwald until the exact moment when it would look best for
Dumbledore, after Grindelwald had ruined most of Europe and built up a
reputation as the most terrible Dark Wizard in history, and just when
Grindelwald had lost the gold and blood sacrifices he was getting from
his Muggle pawns and was about to start heading downhill. If Dumbledore
was really the noble wizard he pretended to be, he’d have fought
Grindelwald long before that. Dumbledore probably wanted Europe ruined,
it was probably part of their plan together, he only attacked
Grindelwald after his puppet failed him. And that big flashy duel wasn’t
real, there’s no way two wizards would be so exactly matched that they’d
fight for twenty whole hours until one of them fell over from
exhaustion, that was just Dumbledore making it look more spectacular.”
Here Draco’s voice became more indignant. “And that got Dumbledore made
Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot! The Line of Merlin Unbroken, corrupted
after fifteen hundred years! And then he became Supreme Mugwump on top
of that, and he already had Hogwarts to use as an invincible
fortress—Headmaster and Chief Warlock and Supreme Mugwump, no normal
person would try to do all that at once, how can anyone not see that
Dumbledore’s trying to take over the world?”

“Pause,” Harry said, and closed his eyes to think.

It wasn’t any worse than what you would have heard about the West in
Stalin’s Russia, and none of that would have been true. Though the blood
purists wouldn’t be able to get away with making stuff up entirely… or
would they? The Daily Prophet had shown a pronounced tendency to make
stuff up… but then again, when they stuck out their neck too far on the
Weasley betrothal, they had been called on it and they had been
embarrassed…

Harry opened his eyes, and saw that Draco was watching him with a
steady, waiting gaze.

“So when you asked me if it was time to join up with Dumbledore, that
was just a test.”

Draco nodded.

“And before that, when you said it sounded right—”

“It sounds right,” said Draco. “But I don’t know if I can trust you. Are
you going to complain about my testing you, Mr Potter? Are you going to
say that I fooled you? That I led you on?”

Harry knew he should smile like a good sport, but he couldn’t really, it
was too much of a disappointment.

“You’re right, it’s fair, I can’t complain,” Harry said instead. “So
what about He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? Not as bad as he was made out to
be?”

Draco looked bitter, at that. “So you think it’s all just making
Father’s side look good and Dumbledore’s side look bad, and that I
believe it all myself just because Father told me.”

“It’s a possibility I’m considering,” Harry said evenly.

Draco’s voice was low and intense. “They knew. My father knew, his
friends knew. They knew the Dark Lord was evil. But he was the only
chance anyone had against Dumbledore! The only wizard anywhere who was
powerful enough to fight him! Some of the other Death Eaters were truly
evil too, like Bellatrix Black—Father isn’t like that—but Father and his
friends had to do it, Harry, they had to, Dumbledore was taking over
everything, the Dark Lord was the only hope anyone had left!”

Draco was staring hard at Harry. Harry met the gaze, trying to think.
Nobody ever thought of themselves as the villain of their own
story—maybe Lord Voldemort did, maybe Bellatrix did, but Draco certainly
didn’t. That the Death Eaters were bad guys was not in question. The
question was whether they were the bad guys; whether there was one
villain in the story, or two…

“You’re not convinced,” Draco said. He looked worried, and a little
angry. Which didn’t surprise Harry. He was pretty sure Draco himself
believed all this.

“Should I be convinced?” Harry said. He didn’t look away. “Just because
you believe it? Are you a strong enough rationalist now that your belief
is strong evidence to me, because you’d be very unlikely to believe it
if it weren’t true? When I met you, you weren’t that strong. Everything
you told me, did you rethink it after you awakened as a scientist, or is
it just something you grew up believing? Can you look me in the eyes and
swear to me upon the honour of House Malfoy that if there’s one untruth
buried in what you said, one thing that got added on just to make
Dumbledore look a little worse, you would have noticed?”

Draco started to open his mouth, and Harry said, “Don’t. Don’t stain the
honour of House Malfoy. You’re not that strong yet, and you should know
it. Listen, Draco, I’ve started to notice some worrying things myself.
But there’s nothing definite, nothing certain, it’s all just deductions
and hypotheses and untrustworthy witnesses… And there’s nothing certain
in your story, either. Dumbledore might’ve had some other good reason
not to fight Grindelwald years earlier—though it would have to be a
pretty good excuse, especially considering what was happening on the
Muggle side of things… but still. Is there one clearly evil thing that
Dumbledore’s done for certain, so I don’t have to wonder?”

Draco’s breathing was harsh. “All right,” Draco said in an uneven voice,
“I’ll tell you what Dumbledore did.” From Draco’s robes came a wand, and
Draco said “Quietus”, then “Quietus” again, but he got the pronunciation
wrong a second time, and finally Harry took out his own wand and did it.

“There,” said Draco hoarsely, “once upon a time there, there was a girl,
and her name was Narcissa, and she was the prettiest, the smartest, the
most cunning girl that was ever Sorted into Slytherin, and my father
loved her, and they married, and she wasn’t a Death Eater, she wasn’t a
fighter, all she ever did was love Father—” Draco stopped there, because
he was crying.

Harry felt sick to his stomach. Draco had never talked about his mother,
not once, he should have noticed that earlier. “She… got in the way of a
curse?”

Draco’s voice came out in a scream. “Dumbledore burned her to death in
her own bedroom!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In a classroom filled with soft silver light, one boy is staring at
another boy, who is sobbing, wiping frantically at his eyes with the
sleeves of his robes.

It was hard for Harry to stay balanced, to keep withholding judgement,
it was too emotional, there was something that either wanted to start
tears from his own eyes in sympathy with Draco, or know that it wasn’t
true…

Dumbledore burned her to death in her own bedroom!

That…

…didn’t sound like Dumbledore’s style…

…but you could only think that thought so many times, before you started
to wonder about the trustworthiness of that whole ‘style’ concept.

“It, it must have hurt horribly,” Draco said, his voice shaking, “Father
never talks about it at all, you don’t ever talk about it in front of
him, but Mr Macnair told me, there were scorch marks all over the
bedroom, from how Mother must have struggled while Dumbledore burned her
alive. That is the debt Dumbledore owes to House Malfoy and we will have
his life for it!”

“Draco,” Harry said, he let all of the hoarseness into his own voice, it
would be wrong to sound calm, “I’m sorry, I’m so sorry for asking, but I
have to know, how do you know it was Dumble—”

“Dumbledore said he did it, he told Father it was a warning! And Father
couldn’t testify under Veritaserum because he was an Occlumens, he
couldn’t even get Dumbledore put on trial, Father’s own allies didn’t
believe him after Dumbledore just denied everything in public, but we
know, the Death Eaters know, Father wouldn’t have any reason to lie
about that, Father would want us to take revenge on the right person,
can’t you see that Harry?” Draco’s voice was wild.

Unless Lucius did it himself, of course, and found it more convenient to
blame Dumbledore.

Although… it also didn’t seem like Lucius’s style. And if he had
murdered Narcissa, it would have been smarter to pin the blame on an
easier victim instead of losing political capital and credibility by
going after Dumbledore…

In time, Draco stopped crying, and looked at Harry. “Well?” said Draco,
sounding like he wanted to spit the words. “Is that evil enough for you,
Mr Potter?”

Harry looked down at where his arms rested on the back of his chair. He
couldn’t meet Draco’s eyes any more, the pain in them was too raw. “I
wasn’t expecting to hear that,” Harry said softly. “I don’t know what to
think any more.”

“You don’t know?” Draco’s voice rose to a shriek, and he stood up
abruptly from his desk—

“I remembered the Dark Lord killing my parents,” Harry said. “When I
went in front of the Dementor the first time, that was what I
remembered, the worst memory. Even though it was so long ago. I heard
them dying. My mother begged the Dark Lord not to kill me, not Harry,
please no, take me, kill me instead! That’s what she said. And the Dark
Lord mocked her, and laughed. Then, I remember, the flash of green
light—”

Harry looked up at Draco.

“So we could fight,” Harry said, “we could just keep on with the same
fight. You could tell me that it was right for my mother to die, because
she was the wife of James, who killed a Death Eater. But bad for your
mother to die, because she was innocent. And I could tell you that it
was right for your mother to die, that Dumbledore must have had some
reason that made it okay to burn her alive in her own bedroom; but bad
for my mother to die. But you know, Draco, either way, wouldn’t it be
obvious that we were just being biased? Because the rule that says that
it’s wrong to kill innocent people, that rule can’t switch on for my
mother and off for yours, and it can’t switch on for your mother and off
for mine. If you tell me that Lily was an enemy of the Death Eaters and
it’s right to kill your enemies, then the same rule says that Dumbledore
was right to kill Narcissa, since she was his enemy.” Harry’s voice went
hoarse. “So if the two of us are going to agree on anything, it’s going
to be that neither of their deaths were right and that no-one’s mother
should die any more.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fury boiling inside Draco was so great that he could barely stop
himself from storming out of the room; all that halted him was the
recognition of a critical moment; and a small remnant of friendship, a
tiny flash of sympathy, for he had forgotten, he’d forgotten, that
Harry’s mother and father were dead by the Dark Lord’s hand.

The silence stretched.

“You can talk,” Harry said, “Draco, talk to me, I won’t get angry—are
you thinking, I don’t know, that Narcissa dying was much worse than Lily
dying? That it’s wrong for me even to make the comparison?”

“I guess I was stupid too,” Draco said. “All this time, all this time I
forgot that you must hate the Death Eaters for killing your parents,
hate Death Eaters the way I hate Dumbledore.” And Harry had never said
anything, never reacted when Draco talked about Death Eaters, kept it
hidden—Draco was a fool.

“No,” Harry said. “It’s not—it’s not like that, Draco, I, I don’t even
know how to explain to you, except to say that a thought like that,
wouldn’t,” Harry’s voice choked, “you wouldn’t ever be able to use it,
to cast the Patronus Charm…”

Draco felt a sudden wrench in his heart, unwanted but he felt it. “Are
you pretending you’re just going to forget about your own parents? Are
you saying I should just forget about Mother?”

“So you and I have to be enemies then?” Now Harry’s voice was growing
equally wild. “What have we ever done to each other that means we have
to be enemies? I refuse to be trapped like that! Justice can’t mean that
both of us should attack each other, it doesn’t make sense!” Harry
stopped, took a deep breath, ran his fingers back through the deliberate
mess of his hair—the fingers came away sweaty, Draco could see it.
“Draco, listen, we can’t expect to meet on everything right away, you
and I. So I won’t ask you to say that the Dark Lord was wrong to kill my
mother, just say that it was… sad. We won’t talk about whether or not it
was necessary, whether it was justified. I’ll just ask you to say that
it was sad that it happened, that my mother’s life was valuable too,
you’ll just say that for now. And I’ll say it was sad that Narcissa
died, because her life was also worth something. We can’t expect to
agree on everything right away, but if we start out by saying that every
life is precious, that it’s sad when anyone dies, then I know we’ll meet
some day. That’s what I want you to say. Not who was right. Not who was
wrong. Just that it was sad when your mother died, and sad when my
mother died, and it would be sad if Hermione Granger died, every life is
precious, can we agree on that and let the rest go by for now, is it
enough if we just agree on that? Can we, Draco? That seems… more like a
thought someone could use to cast the Patronus Charm.”

There were tears in Harry’s eyes.

And Draco was getting angry again. “Dumbledore killed Mother, it’s not
enough to just say it’s sad! I don’t understand what you think you have
to do, but the Malfoys have to take revenge!” Not avenging the deaths of
family went beyond weakness, beyond dishonour, you might as well not
exist.

“I’m not arguing with that,” Harry said quietly. “But will you say that
Lily Potter’s death was sad? Just say that one thing?”

“That’s…” Draco was having difficulty finding words again. “I know, I
know how you feel, but don’t you see Harry, even if I just say that Lily
Potter’s death was sad, that’s already going against the Death Eaters!”

“Draco, you’ve got to be able to say the Death Eaters were wrong about
some things! You have to, you can’t progress as a scientist otherwise,
there’ll be a roadblock in your way, an authority you can’t contradict.
Not every change is an improvement, but every improvement is a change,
you can’t do anything better unless you can manage to do it differently,
you’ve got to let yourself do better than other people! Even your
father, Draco, even him. You’ve got to be able to point to something
your father did and say it was mistaken, because he wasn’t perfect, and
if you can’t say that, you can’t do better.”

Father had warned him, every night before he went to sleep for a month
before he went to Hogwarts, that there would be people with this goal.

“You’re trying to break me loose of Father.”

“Trying to break a part of you loose,” said Harry. “Trying to let you
fix some things your father got mistaken. Trying to let you do better.
But not… trying to break your Patronus!” Harry’s voice got softer. “I
wouldn’t want to break something bright like that. Who knows, fixing
Slytherin House might need that, too…”

It was getting to Draco, that was the thing, despite everything it was
getting to him, you had to be really careful around Harry because his
arguments sounded so convincing even when he was wrong. “And what you’re
not admitting is that Dumbledore told you that you could avenge your
parents’ deaths by taking Lord Malfoy’s son from him—”

“No. No. That part’s just wrong.” Harry took a deep breath. “I did not
know who Dumbledore was, or who the Dark Lord was, or who the Death
Eaters were, or how my parents died, until three days before I came to
Hogwarts. The day you and I first met in the clothes shop, that was the
day I learned. And Dumbledore doesn’t even like Muggle science, or he
says he doesn’t, I got a chance to probe him on it once. The thought of
taking revenge on the Death Eaters through you has never crossed my
mind, not even once until now. I didn’t know who the Malfoys were when I
met you in the clothes shop, and then I liked you.”

There was a long silence.

“I wish I could trust you,” Draco said. His voice was shaking. “If I
could just know you were telling the truth, everything would be so much
simpler—”

And then suddenly it came to Draco.

The way to know whether Harry Potter really meant everything he said,
about wanting to fix Slytherin House, about being sad that Mother had
died.

It would be illegal, and since he’d have to do it without Father’s help,
it would be dangerous, he couldn’t even trust Harry Potter to help, but…

“All right,” Draco said. “I’ve thought of a definitive experiment.”

“What is it?”

“I want to give you a drop of Veritaserum,” Draco said. “Just one drop,
so you can’t lie, but not enough to make you answer anything. I don’t
know where I’ll get it, but I’ll make certain it’s safe—”

“Um,” Harry said. There was a helpless look on his face. “Draco, um—”

“Don’t say it,” Draco said. His voice was firm and calm. “If you say no,
that’s my experimental result right there.”

“Draco, I’m an Occlumens—”

“Oh that is such a lie—”

“I was trained by Mr Bester. Professor Quirrell set it up. Look, Draco,
I’ll take one drop of Veritaserum if you can get it, I’m just warning
you that I’m an Occlumens. Not a perfect Occlumens, but Mr Bester said I
was putting up a complete block, and I could probably beat Veritaserum.”

“You’re in your first year at Hogwarts! That’s just crazy!”

“Know a Legilimens you can trust? I’ll be happy to demonstrate—look,
Draco, I’m sorry, but doesn’t the fact that I told you count for
something? I could have just let you do it, you know.”

“WHY? Why are you always like this, Harry? Why do you have to mess
everything up even when it’s IMPOSSIBLE? And stop smiling, this isn’t
funny!”

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I know it’s not funny, I—”

It took a while for Draco to get himself under control.

But Harry was right. Harry could have just let Draco administer the
Veritaserum. If he really was an Occlumens… Draco didn’t know who he
could ask to try Legilimency, but he could at least ask Professor
Quirrell if it was true… Could Draco trust Professor Quirrell? Maybe
Professor Quirrell would just say anything Harry asked him to.

Then Draco remembered the other thing Harry had told him to ask
Professor Quirrell, and thought of a different test.

“You know,” said Draco. “You know what it costs me, if I agree that the
poison in Slytherin’s House is hating Muggle-borns, and say that Lily
Potter’s death was sad. And that’s part of your plan, don’t tell me it’s
not.”

Harry said nothing, which was wise of him.

“There’s something I want from you in return,” said Draco. “And before
then, an experimental test I want to try—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco pushed open the door to which the portraits had directed them, and
this time it was the right door. Before them was a small empty place of
stone set against the night sky. Not a roof like the one he’d dropped
Harry from, but a tiny and proper courtyard, far above the ground. With
proper railings, elaborate traceries of stone that flushed seamlessly
into the stone floor… How so much artistry had been infused into the
creation of Hogwarts was something that still awed Draco every time he
thought about it. There must have been some way to do it all at once,
no-one could have detailed so much piece by piece, the castle changed
and every new piece was like that. It was so far beyond the wizardry of
these fading days that no-one would have believed it if they hadn’t seen
the proof in Hogwarts itself.

Cloudless and cold, the winter night sky; it got dark long before
students’ curfew, in the final days of January.

The stars shining brightly, in the clear air.

Harry had said that being under the stars would help him.

Draco touched his chest with his wand, slid his fingers in a practised
motion, and said, “Thermos.” A warmth spread through him, starting from
his heart; the wind went on blowing on his face, but he was no longer
cold.

“Thermos,” Harry’s voice said behind him.

They went together to the railing, to look down at the ground a long way
below. Draco tried to figure if they were in one of the towers that
could be seen from outside, and found that right now he couldn’t quite
seem to picture how Hogwarts looked from outside. But the ground below
was always the same; he could see the Forbidden Forest as a vague
outline, and moonlight glittering from the Hogwarts Lake.

“You know,” Harry’s voice said quietly from beside him where his arms
leaned on the railing next to Draco’s, “one of the things that Muggles
get really wrong, is that they don’t turn all their lights out at night.
Not even for one hour every month, not even for fifteen minutes once a
year. The photons scatter in the atmosphere and wash out all but the
brightest stars, and the night sky doesn’t look the same at all, not
unless you go far away from any cities. Once you’ve looked up at the sky
over Hogwarts, it’s hard to imagine living in a Muggle city, where you
wouldn’t be able to see the stars. You certainly wouldn’t want to spend
your whole life in Muggle cities, once you’d seen the night sky over
Hogwarts.”

Draco glanced at Harry, and found that Harry was craning his neck to
stare up at where the Milky Way arched across the darkness.

“Of course,” Harry went on, his voice still quiet, “you can’t ever see
the stars properly from Earth, either, the air always gets in the way.
You have to look from somewhere else, if you want to see the real thing,
the stars burning hard and bright, like their true selves. Have you ever
wished that you could just whisk yourself up into the night sky, Draco,
and go and look at what there is to see around other Suns than ours? If
there were no limit to the power of your magic, is that one of the
things you would do, if you could do anything?”

There was a silence, and then Draco realized that he was expected to
answer. “I didn’t think of it before,” Draco said. Without any conscious
decision, his voice came out as soft and hushed as Harry’s. “Do you
really think anyone would ever be able to do that?”

“I don’t think it’ll be that easy,” said Harry. “But I know I don’t mean
to spend my whole life on Earth.”

It would have been something to laugh at, if Draco hadn’t known that
some Muggles had already left, without even using magic.

“To pass your test,” Harry said, “I’m going to have to say what it means
to me, that thought, the whole thing, not the shorter version I tried to
explain to you before. But you should be able to see it’s the same idea,
only more general. So my version of the thought, Draco, is that when we
go out into the stars, we might find other people there. And if so, they
certainly won’t look like we do. There might be things out there that
are grown from crystal, or big pulsating blobs… or they might be made of
magic, now that I think about it. So with all that strangeness, how do
you recognize a person? Not by the shape, not by how many arms or legs
it has. Not by the sort of substance it’s made out of, whether that’s
flesh or crystal or stuff I can’t imagine. You would have to recognize
them as people from their minds. And even their minds wouldn’t work just
like ours do. But anything that lives and thinks and knows itself and
doesn’t want to die, it’s sad, Draco, it’s sad if that person has to
die, because it doesn’t want to. Compared to what might be out there,
every human being who ever lived, we’re all like brothers and sisters,
you could hardly even tell us apart. The ones out there who met us, they
wouldn’t see British or French, they wouldn’t be able to tell the
difference, they’d just see a human being. Humans who can love, and
hate, and laugh, and cry; and to them, the ones out there, that would
make us all as alike as peas in the same pod. They would be different,
though. Really different. But that wouldn’t stop us, and it wouldn’t
stop them, if we both wanted to be friends together.”

Harry raised his wand then, and Draco turned, and looked away, as he had
promised; looked toward the stone floor and stone wall in which the door
was set. For Draco had promised not to look, and not to tell anyone of
what Harry had said, or anything at all of what happened here this
night, though he didn’t know why it was to be so secret.

“I have a dream,” said Harry’s voice, “that one day sentient beings will
be judged by the patterns of their minds, and not their colour or their
shape or the stuff they’re made of, or who their parents were. Because
if we can get along with crystal things some day, how silly would it be
not to get along with Muggle-borns, who are shaped like us, and think
like us, as alike to us as peas in a pod? The crystal things wouldn’t
even be able to tell the difference. How impossible is it to imagine
that the hatred poisoning Slytherin House would be worth taking with us
to the stars? Every life is precious, everything that thinks and knows
itself and doesn’t want to die. Lily Potter’s life was precious, and
Narcissa Malfoy’s life was precious, even though it’s too late for them
now, it was sad when they died. But there are other lives that are still
alive to be fought for. Your life, and my life, and Hermione Granger’s
life, all the lives of Earth, and all the lives beyond, to be defended
and protected, EXPECTO PATRONUM!”

And there was light.

Everything turned to silver in that light, the stone floor, the stone
wall, the door, the railings, so dazzling just in the reflection that
you could hardly even see them, even the air seemed to shine, and the
light grew brighter, and brighter, and brighter—

When the light ended it was like a shock, Draco’s hand went
automatically to his robe to bring out a handkerchief, and it was only
then that he realized he was crying.

“There is your experimental result,” Harry’s voice said quietly. “I
really did mean it, that thought.”

Draco slowly turned toward Harry, who had lowered his wand now.

“That, that’s got to be a trick, right?” Draco said. He couldn’t take
many more of these shocks. “Your Patronus—can’t really be that bright—”
And yet it had been Patronus light, once you knew what you were looking
at, you couldn’t mistake it for anything else.

“That was the true form of the Patronus Charm,” Harry said. “Something
that lets you put all your strength into the Patronus, without hindrance
from within yourself. And before you ask, I did not learn it from
Dumbledore. He does not know the secret, and could not cast the true
form if he did. I solved the puzzle for myself. And I knew, once I
understood, that this spell must not be spoken of. For your sake, I
undertook your test; but you must not speak of it, Draco.”

Draco didn’t know any more, he didn’t know where the true strength lay,
or the right of things. Double vision, double vision. Draco wanted to
call Harry’s ideals weakness, Hufflepuff foolishness, the sort of lie
that rulers told to placate the populace and that Harry had been silly
enough to believe for himself, foolishness taken seriously and raised up
to insane heights, projected out onto the stars themselves—

Something beautiful and hidden, mysterious and bright—

“Will I,” whispered Draco, “be able to cast a Patronus like that, some
day?”

“If you always keep seeking the truth,” Harry said, “and if you don’t
refuse the warm thoughts when you find them, then I’m sure you will. I
think a person could get anywhere if they just kept going long enough,
even to the stars.”

Draco wiped his eyes with his handkerchief again.

“We should go back inside,” Draco said in an unsteady voice, “someone
could’ve seen it, all that light—”

Harry nodded, and moved to and through the door; and Draco looked up at
the night sky one last time before he followed.

Who was the Boy-Who-Lived, that he was already an Occlumens, and could
cast the true form of the Patronus Charm, and do other strange things?
What was Harry’s Patronus, why must it stay unseen?

Draco didn’t ask any of those questions, because Harry might have
answered, and Draco just couldn’t take any more shocks today. He just
couldn’t. One more shock and his head was going to just fall right off
his shoulders and go bounce, bounce, bounce down the corridors of
Hogwarts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They’d ducked into a small alcove, instead of going all the way back to
the classroom, at Draco’s request; he was feeling too nervous to put it
off any longer.

Draco put up a Quieting barrier, and then looked at Harry in silent
question.

“I’ve been thinking about it,” Harry said. “I’ll do it, but there are
five conditions—”

“Five?”

“Yes, five. Look, Draco, a pledge like this is just begging to go
terribly wrong somehow, you know it would go wrong if this were a play—”

“Well, it’s not!” Draco said. “Dumbledore killed Mother. He’s evil. It’s
one of those things you talk about that doesn’t have to be complicated.”

“Draco,” Harry said, his voice careful, “all I know is that you say that
Lucius says that Dumbledore says he killed Narcissa. To believe that
unquestioningly, I have to trust you and Lucius and Dumbledore. So like
I said, there are conditions. The first one is that at any point you can
release me from the pledge, if it no longer seems like a good idea. It
has to be a deliberate and intended decision on your part, of course,
not a trick of wording or something.”

“Okay,” said Draco. That sounded safe enough.

“Condition two is that I’m pledging to take as an enemy whoever actually
did kill Narcissa, as determined to the honest best of my ability as a
rationalist. Whether that’s Dumbledore, or someone else. And you have my
word that I’ll exercise my best ability as a rationalist to keep that
judgement honest, as a question of simple fact. Agreed?”

“I don’t like it,” said Draco. He didn’t, the whole point was to make
sure Harry never went with Dumbledore. Still, if Harry was honest, he’d
catch on to Dumbledore soon enough; and if dishonest, he’d already
broken his word… “But I’ll agree.”

“Condition three is that Narcissa has to have been burned alive. If that
part of the story turns out to be something exaggerated just to make it
sound a little worse, then I get to decide for myself whether or not to
still go through with the pledge. Good people sometimes have to kill.
But they don’t ever torture people to death. It’s because Narcissa was
burned alive that I know whoever did that was evil.”

Draco kept his temper, barely.

“Condition four is that if Narcissa got her own hands dirty, and, say,
Crucioed someone’s child into insanity, and that person burned Narcissa
for revenge, the deal might be off again. Because then it was still
wrong for them to burn her, they still should’ve just killed her without
pain; but it wasn’t evil the same way as if she was just Lucius’s love
who never did anything herself, like you said. Condition five is that if
whoever killed Narcissa was tricked somehow into doing it, then my enemy
is whoever tricked them, not the person who was tricked.”

“All this really sounds like you’re planning to weasel out of it—”

“Draco, I won’t take a good person as an enemy, not for you or anyone. I
have to really believe they’re in the wrong. But I’ve thought about it,
and it seems to me that if Narcissa didn’t do any evil with her own
hands, just fell in love with Lucius and chose to stay his wife, then
whoever burned her alive in her own bedroom isn’t likely to be good. And
I’ll pledge to take as my enemy whoever made that happen, whether it’s
Dumbledore or anyone else, unless you deliberately release me from that
pledge. Hopefully that won’t go wrong the way it would if this were a
play.”

“I’m not happy,” said Draco. “But okay. You pledge to take my mother’s
murderer as your enemy, and I’ll—”

Harry waited, with a patient look on his face, while Draco tried to make
his voice work again.

“I’ll help you fix the problem with Slytherin House hating
Muggle-borns,” Draco finished in a whisper. “And I’ll say it was sad
that Lily Potter died.”

“So be it,” said Harry.

And it was done.

The break, Draco knew, had just widened a little more. No, not a little,
a lot. There was a sensation of drifting away, of being lost, further
and further from shore, further and further from home…

“Excuse me,” Draco said. He turned away from Harry, and then tried to
calm himself, he had to do this test, and he didn’t want to fail it from
being nervous or ashamed.

Draco raised his wand into the starting position for the Patronus Charm.

Remembered falling from his broomstick, the pain, the fear, imagined it
coming from a tall figure in a cloak, looking like a dead thing left in
water.

And then Draco closed his eyes, the better to remember Father holding
his small, cold hands in his own warm strength.

Don’t be frightened, my son, I’m here…

The wand swung up in a broad brandish, to drive the fear away, and Draco
was surprised at the strength of it; and he remembered in that moment
that Father wasn’t lost, would never be lost, would always be there and
strong in his own person, no matter what happened to Draco, and his
voice cried, “Expecto Patronum!”

Draco opened his eyes.

A shining snake looked back at him, no less bright than before.

Behind him, he heard Harry exhale a breath, as though in relief.

Draco gazed into the white light. It seemed he wasn’t lost completely,
after all.

“That reminds me,” said Harry after a while. “Can we test my hypothesis
about how to use a Patronus to send messages?”

“Is it going to surprise me?” said Draco. “I don’t want any more
surprises today.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had claimed that the idea wasn’t all that strange and he didn’t
see how it could possibly shock Draco in any way, which made Draco feel
even more nervous, somehow; but Draco could see how important it was to
have a way of sending messages in emergencies.

The trick—or so Harry hypothesized—was wanting to spread the good news,
wanting the recipient to know the truth of whatever happy thought you’d
used to cast the Patronus Charm. Only instead of telling the recipient
in words, the Patronus itself was the message. By wanting them to see
that, the Patronus would go to them.

“Tell Harry,” said Draco to the luminous snake, even though Harry was
standing only a few paces away on the other side of the room, “to, um,
beware the green monkey,” this being a sign from a play Draco had once
seen.

And then, just like at King’s Cross station, Draco wanted Harry to know
that Father had always cared for him; only this time he didn’t try to
say it in words, but wanted to say it with the happy thought itself.

The bright snake slithered across the room, looking more like it was
slithering through the air rather than the stone itself; it got to Harry
after travelling that short distance—

—and said to Harry, in a strange voice that Draco recognized as how he
himself probably sounded to other people, “Beware the green monkey.”

“Hsssss sss sshsshsss,” said Harry.

The snake slithered back across the floor to Draco.

“Harry says the message is received and acknowledged,” said the shining
Blue Krait in Draco’s voice.

“Huh,” Harry said. “Talking to Patronuses feels odd.”

…

…

…

…

“Why are you looking at me like that?” said the Heir of Slytherin.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath

Harry stared at Draco.

“You mean just magical snakes, right?”

“N-no,” said Draco. He was looking rather pale, and was still
stammering, but had at least stopped the incoherent noises he’d been
making earlier. “You’re a Parselmouth, you can speak Parseltongue, it’s
the language of all snakes everywhere. You can understand any snake when
it talks, and they can understand when you talk to them… Harry, you
can’t possibly believe you were Sorted into Ravenclaw! You’re the Heir
of Slytherin!”

…

…

…

…

…

“SNAKES ARE SENTIENT?”

48. Utilitarian Priorities

IT was Saturday, the first morning of February, and at the Ravenclaw
table, a boy bearing a breakfast plate heaped high with vegetables was
nervously inspecting his servings for the slightest trace of meat.

It might have been an overreaction. After he’d got over the raw shock,
Harry’s common sense had woken up and hypothesized that “Parseltongue”
was probably just a linguistic user interface for controlling snakes…

…after all, snakes couldn’t really be human-level intelligent, someone
would have noticed by now. The smallest-brained creatures Harry had ever
heard of with anything like linguistic ability were the African grey
parrots taught by Irene Pepperberg. And that was unstructured
protolanguage, in a species that played complex games of adultery and
needed to model other parrots. While according to what Draco had been
able to remember, snakes spoke to Parselmouths in what sounded like
normal human language—i.e., full-blown recursive syntactical grammar.
That had taken time for hominids to evolve, with huge brains and strong
social selection pressures. Snakes didn’t have much society at all that
Harry had ever heard. And with thousands upon thousands of different
species of snakes all over the world, how could they all use the same
version of their supposed language, “Parseltongue”?

Of course that was all merely common sense, in which Harry was starting
to lose faith entirely.

But Harry was sure he’d heard snakes hissing on the TV at some
point—after all, he knew what that sounded like from somewhere—and that
hadn’t sounded to him like language, which had seemed a good deal more
reassuring…

…at first. The problem was that Draco had also asserted that
Parselmouths could send snakes on extended complex missions. And if that
was true, then Parselmouths had to make snakes persistently intelligent
by talking to them. In the worst-case scenario that would make the snake
self-aware, like what Harry had accidentally done to the Sorting Hat.

And when Harry had offered that hypothesis, Draco had claimed that he
could remember a story—Harry hoped to Cthulhu that this one story was
just a fairy tale, it had that ring to it, but there was a story—about
Salazar Slytherin sending a brave young viper on a mission to gather
information from other snakes.

If any snake a Parselmouth had talked to, could make other snakes
self-aware by talking to them, then…

Then…

Harry didn’t even know why his mind was going all “then… then…” when he
knew perfectly well how the exponential progression would work, it was
just the sheer moral horror of it that was blowing his mind.

And what if someone had invented a spell like that to talk to cows?

What if there were Poultrymouths?

Or for that matter…

Harry froze in sudden realization just as the forkful of carrots was
about to enter his mouth.

That couldn’t, couldn’t possibly be true, surely no wizard would be
stupid enough to do that…

And Harry knew, with a dreadful sinking feeling, that of course they
would be that stupid. Salazar Slytherin had probably never considered
the moral implications of snake intelligence for even one second, just
like it hadn’t ever occurred to Salazar that Muggle-borns were
intelligent enough to deserve personhood rights. Most people just didn’t
see moral issues at all unless someone else was pointing them out…

“Harry?” said Terry from beside him, sounding like he was afraid he
would regret asking. “Why are you staring at your fork like that?”

“I’m starting to think magic should be illegal,” said Harry. “By the
way, have you ever heard any stories about wizards who could speak with
plants?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Terry hadn’t heard of anything like that.

Neither had any seventh-year Ravenclaws that Harry had asked.

And now Harry had returned to his place, but not yet sat down again,
staring at his plate of vegetables with a forlorn expression. He was
getting hungrier, and later in the day he would be visiting Mary’s Place
for one of their incredibly tasty dishes… Harry was finding himself
sorely tempted to just revert back to yesterday’s eating habits and be
done with it.

You’ve got to eat something, said his inner Slytherin. And it’s not all
that much more likely that anyone sneezed self-awareness onto poultry
than onto plants, so as long as you’re eating food of questionable
sentience either way, why not eat the delicious deep-fried Diracawl
slices?

I’m not quite sure that’s valid utilitarian logic, there—

Oh, you want utilitarian logic? One serving of utilitarian logic coming
up: even in the unlikely chance that some moron did manage to confer
sentience on chickens, it’s your research that stands the best chance of
discovering the fact and doing something about it. If you can complete
your work even slightly faster by not messing around with your diet,
then, counterintuitive as it may seem, the best thing you can do to save
the greatest number of possibly-sentient who-knows-whats is not wasting
time on wild guesses about what might be intelligent. It’s not like the
house elves haven’t prepared the food already, regardless of what you
take onto your plate.

Harry considered this for a moment. It was a rather seductive line of
reasoning—

Good! said Slytherin. I’m glad you see now that the most moral thing to
do is to sacrifice the lives of sentient beings for your own
convenience, to feed your dreadful appetites, for the sick pleasure of
ripping them apart with your teeth—

What? Harry thought indignantly. Which side are you on here?

His inner Slytherin’s mental voice was grim. You too will some day
embrace the doctrine… that the end justifies the meats. This was
followed by some mental snickering.

Ever since Harry had started worrying that plants might also be
sentient, his non-Ravenclaw parts had been having trouble taking his
moral caution seriously. Hufflepuff was shouting Cannibalism! every time
Harry tried to think about any food item whatsoever, and Gryffindor
would visualize it screaming while he ate it, even if it was, say, a
sandwich—

Cannibalism!

AIIIEEEE DON’T EAT ME—

Ignore the screams, eat it anyway! It’s a safe place to compromise your
ethics in the service of higher goals, everyone else thinks it’s okay to
eat sandwiches so you can’t use your usual rationalization about a small
probability of a large downside if you get caught—

Harry gave a mental sigh, and thought, Just so long as you’re okay with
us being eaten by giant monsters that didn’t do enough research into
whether we were sentient.

I’m okay with that, said Slytherin. Is everyone else okay with that?
(Internal mental nods.) Great, can we go back to deep-fried Diracawl
slices now?

Not until I’ve done some more research into what’s sentient and what
isn’t. Now shut up. And Harry turned firmly away from his plate full of
oh-so-tempting vegetables to head toward the library—

Just eat the students, said Hufflepuff. There’s no doubt about whether
they’re sentient.

You know you want to, said Gryffindor. I bet the young ones are the
tastiest.

Harry was starting to wonder if the Dementor had somehow damaged their
imaginary personalities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Honestly,” said Hermione. The young girl’s voice sounded a little
acerbic as her gaze scanned the bookshelves of the Herbology stacks in
the Hogwarts library. Harry had left her a message asking if she could
come to the library after she’d finished breakfast, which Harry had
skipped; but then when Harry had introduced the day’s topic she’d seemed
a bit nonplussed. “You know your problem, Harry? You’ve got no sense of
priorities. An idea gets into your head and you just go running straight
off after it.”

“I’ve got a great sense of priorities,” said Harry. His hand reached out
and grabbed Vegetable Cunning by Casey McNamara, and began to flip
through the starting pages, searching for the table of contents. “That’s
why I want to find out whether plants can talk before I eat my carrots.”

“Don’t you think that maybe the two of us have more important things to
worry about?”

You sound just like Draco, Harry thought, but of course didn’t say out
loud. Out loud he said, “What could possibly be more important than
plants turning out to be sentient?”

There was a pregnant silence from beside him, as Harry’s eyes went down
the table of contents. There was indeed a chapter on Plant Language,
causing Harry’s heart to skip a beat; and then his hands began to
rapidly turn the pages, heading for the appropriate page number.

“There are days,” said Hermione Granger, “when I really, truly, have
absolutely no idea what goes on inside that head of yours.”

“Look, it’s a question of multiplication, okay? There’s a lot of plants
in the world, if they’re not sentient then they’re not important, but if
plants are people then they’ve got more moral weight than all the human
beings in the world put together. Now, of course your brain doesn’t
realize that on an intuitive level, but that’s because the brain can’t
multiply. Like if you ask three separate groups of Canadian households
how much they’ll pay to save two thousand, twenty thousand, or two
hundred thousand birds from dying in oil ponds, the three groups will
respectively state that they’re willing to pay seventy-eight,
eighty-eight, and eighty dollars. No difference, in other words. It’s
called scope insensitivity. Your brain imagines a single bird struggling
in an oil pond, and that image creates some amount of emotion that
determines your willingness to pay. But no-one can visualize even two
thousand of anything, so the quantity just gets thrown straight out the
window. Now try to correct that bias with respect to a hundred trillion
sentient blades of grass, and you’ll realize that this could be
thousands of times more important than we used to think the whole human
species was… oh thank Azathoth, this says it’s just mandrakes that can
talk and they speak regular human language out loud, not that there’s a
spell you can use to talk with any plant—”

“Ron came to me at breakfast yesterday morning,” Hermione said. Now her
voice sounded a little quiet, a little sad, maybe even a little scared.
“He said he’d been dreadfully shocked to see me kiss you. That what you
said while you were Demented should’ve shown me how much evil you were
hiding inside. And that if I was going to be a follower of a Dark
Wizard, then he wasn’t sure he wanted to be in my army any more.”

Harry’s hands had stopped turning pages. It seemed that Harry’s brain,
for all its abstract knowledge, was still incapable of appreciating
scope on any real emotional level, because it had just forcibly
redirected his attention away from trillions of possibly-sentient blades
of grass who might be suffering or dying even as they spoke, and toward
the life of a single human being who happened to be nearer and dearer.

“Ron is the world’s most gigantic prat,” Harry said. “They won’t be
printing that in the newspaper anytime soon, because it’s not news. So
after you fired him, how many of his arms and legs did you break?”

“I tried to tell him it wasn’t like that,” Hermione went on in the same
quiet voice. “I tried to tell him you weren’t like that, and that it
wasn’t like that between the two of us, but it just seemed to make him
even more… more like he was.”

“Well, yes,” Harry said. He was surprised that he wasn’t feeling angrier
at Captain Weasley, but his concern for Hermione seemed to be overriding
that, for now. “The more you try to justify yourself to people like
that, the more it acknowledges that they have the right to question you.
It shows you think they get to be your inquisitor, and once you grant
someone that sort of power over you, they just push more and more.” This
was one of Draco Malfoy’s lessons which Harry had thought was actually
pretty smart: people who tried to defend themselves got questioned over
every little point and could never satisfy their interrogators; but if
you made it clear from the start that you were a celebrity and above
social conventions, people’s minds wouldn’t bother tracking most
violations. “That’s why when Ron came over to me as I was sitting down
at the Ravenclaw table, and told me to stay away from you, I held my
hand out over the floor and said, ‘You see how high I’m holding my hand?
Your intelligence has to be at least this high to talk to me.’ Then he
accused me of, quote, sucking you into the darkness, unquote, so I
pursed my lips and went schluuuuurp, and after that his mouth was still
making those talking noises so I put up a Quieting Charm. I don’t think
he’ll be trying his lectures on me again.”

“I understand why you did that,” Hermione said, her voice tight, “I
wanted to tell him off too, but I really wish you hadn’t, it will make
things harder for me, Harry!”

Harry looked up from Vegetable Cunning again, he wasn’t getting any
reading done at this rate; and he saw that Hermione was still reading
whatever book she had, not looking up at him. Her hands turned another
page even as he watched.

“I think you’re taking the wrong approach by trying to defend yourself
at all,” Harry said. “I really do think that. You are who you are.
You’re friends with whoever you choose. Tell anyone who questions you to
shove it.”

Hermione just shook her head, and turned another page.

“Option two,” Harry said. “Go to Fred and George and tell them to have a
little talk with their wayward brother, those two are genuine good
guys—”

“It’s not just Ron,” Hermione said in almost a whisper. “Lots of people
are saying it, Harry. Even Mandy is giving me worried looks when she
thinks I’m not looking. Isn’t it funny? I keep worrying that Professor
Quirrell is sucking you into the darkness, and now people are warning me
just the same way I try to warn you.”

“Well, yeah,” said Harry. “Doesn’t that reassure you a bit about me and
Professor Quirrell?”

“In a word,” said Hermione, “no.”

There was a silence that lasted long enough for Hermione to turn another
page, and then her voice, in a real whisper this time, “And, and Padma
is going around telling everyone that, that since I couldn’t cast the
P-Patronus Charm, I must only be p-pretending to be n-nice…”

“Padma didn’t even try herself!” Harry said indignantly. “If you were a
Dark Witch who was just pretending, you wouldn’t have tried in front of
everyone, do they think you’re stupid?”

Hermione smiled a little, and blinked a few times.

“Hey, I have to worry about actually going evil. Here the worst-case
scenario is that people think you’re more evil than you really are. Is
that going to kill you? I mean, is it all that bad?”

The young girl nodded, her face screwed up tight.

“Look, Hermione… if you worry that much about what other people think,
if you’re unhappy whenever other people don’t picture you exactly the
same way you picture yourself, that’s already dooming yourself to always
be unhappy. No-one ever thinks of us just the same way we think of
ourselves.”

“I don’t know how to explain to you,” Hermione said in a sad soft voice.
“I’m not sure it’s something you could ever understand, Harry. All I can
think of to say is, how would you feel if I thought you were evil?”

“Um…” Harry visualized it. “Yeah, that would hurt. A lot. But you’re a
good person who thinks about that sort of thing intelligently, you’ve
earned that power over me, it would mean something if you thought I’d
gone wrong. I can’t think of a single other student, besides you, whose
opinion I’d care about the same way—”

“You can live like that,” whispered Hermione Granger. “I can’t.”

The girl had gone through another three pages in silence, and Harry had
returned his eyes to his own book and was trying to regain his focus,
when Hermione finally said, in a small voice, “Are you really sure I
mustn’t know how to cast the Patronus Charm?”

“I…” Harry had to swallow a sudden lump in his throat. He suddenly saw
himself not knowing why the Patronus Charm didn’t work for him, not
being able to show Draco, just being told that there was a reason, and
nothing more. “Hermione, your Patronus would shine with the same light
but it wouldn’t be normal, it wouldn’t look like people think Patronuses
should look, anyone who saw it would know there was something strange
going on. Even if I told you the secret you couldn’t demonstrate to
anyone, unless you made them face the other way so they could only see
the light, and… and the most important part of any secret is the
knowledge that a secret exists, you could only show one or two friends
if you swore them to secrecy…” Harry’s voice trailed off helplessly.

“I’ll take it.” Her voice was still small.

It was very hard not to just blurt out the secret, right there in the
library.

“I, I shouldn’t, I really shouldn’t, it’s dangerous, Hermione, it could
do a lot of harm if that secret got out! Haven’t you heard the saying,
three can keep a secret if two are dead? That telling just your closest
friends is the same as telling everyone, because you’re not just
trusting them, you’re trusting everyone they trust? It’s too important,
too much of a risk, it’s not the sort of decision that should be made
for the sake of fixing someone’s reputation at school!”

“Okay,” Hermione said. She closed the book and put it back on the shelf.
“I can’t concentrate right now, Harry, I’m sorry.”

“If there’s anything else I can do—”

“Be nicer to everyone.”

The girl didn’t look back as she walked out of the stacks, which might
have been a good thing, because the boy was frozen in place, unmoving.

After a while, the boy started turning pages again.

49. Prior Information

A boy waits at a small clearing at the edge of the non-forbidden forest,
beside a dirt trail that runs back to the gates of Hogwarts in one
direction, and off into the distance in another. There is a carriage
nearby, and the boy is standing well away from it, looking at it, his
eyes seldom wavering from its direction.

In the distance, a figure is approaching along the dirt path: a man
wearing professorial robes, trudging slowly with his shoulders slumped
low, his formal shoes kicking up small clouds of dust as he walks.

Half a minute later, the boy darts another quick glance before returning
to his surveillance; and this glimpse shows that the man’s shoulders
have straightened, his face tautened, and that his shoes are now walking
lightly across the dirt, leaving not a trace of dust in the air behind.

“Hello, Professor Quirrell,” Harry said without letting his eyes move
again from the direction of their carriage.

“Salutations,” said the calm voice of Professor Quirrell. “You seem to
be keeping your distance, Mr Potter. I don’t suppose you see something
odd about our conveyance?”

“Odd?” Harry echoed. “Why no, I can’t say I see anything odd. There seem
to be even numbers of everything. Four seats, four wheels, two huge
skeletal winged horses…”

A skin-wrapped skull turned to look at him and flashed teeth, solid and
white in that black cavernous mouth, as though to indicate that it was
just about as fond of him as he was of it. The other black leathery
horse-skeleton tossed its head like it was whickering, but there was no
sound.

“They are Thestrals, and they have always drawn the carriage,” Professor
Quirrell said, sounding quite undisturbed as he climbed into the front
bench of the carriage, sitting down as far to the right as possible.
“They are visible only to those who have seen death and comprehended it,
a useful defence against most animal predators. Hm. I suppose that the
first time you went in front of the Dementor, your worst memory proved
to be the night of your encounter with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?”

Harry nodded grimly. It was the right guess, even if for the wrong
reasons. Those who have seen Death…

“Did you recall anything of interest, thereby?”

“Yes,” Harry said, “I did,” only that and nothing more, for he was not
ready as yet to make accusations.

The Defence Professor smiled one of his dry smiles, and beckoned with an
impatient finger.

Harry closed the distance and climbed into the carriage, wincing. The
sense of doom had grown significantly stronger after the day of the
Dementor, even though it had been slowly weakening before then. The
greatest distance that the carriage allowed him from Professor Quirrell
no longer seemed like nearly far enough.

Then the skeletal horses trotted forward and the carriage started in
motion, taking them toward the outer bounds of Hogwarts. As it did,
Professor Quirrell slumped back down into zombie-mode, and the sense of
doom retreated, though it still hovered at the edge of Harry’s
perceptions, niggling…

The forest scrolled by as the carriage rolled along, the trees moving
past at a speed that seemed positively glacial by comparison to
broomsticks or even cars. There was something oddly relaxing, Harry
thought, about travelling that slowly. It had certainly relaxed the
Defence Professor, who was slumped over with a small stream of drool
coming out of his slack mouth and puddling on his robes.

Harry still hadn’t decided what he was allowed to eat for lunch.

His library research hadn’t turned up any sign of wizards speaking to
non-magical plants. Or any other non-magical animals besides snakes,
although Spell and Speak by Paul Breedlove had recounted the
probably-mythical tale of a sorceress called the Lady of Flying
Squirrels.

What Harry wanted to do was ask Professor Quirrell. The problem was that
Professor Quirrell was too smart. Judging by what Draco had said, the
Heir of Slytherin business was a major bombshell, and Harry wasn’t sure
he wanted anyone else to know. And the instant Harry asked about
Parseltongue, Professor Quirrell would fix him with those pale blue eyes
and say, ‘I see, Mr Potter, so you taught Mr Malfoy the Patronus Charm
and accidentally spoke to his snake.’

It wouldn’t matter that it shouldn’t be enough evidence to locate the
true explanation as a hypothesis, let alone overcome its burden of prior
improbability. Somehow the Defence Professor would deduce it anyway.
There were times when Harry suspected that Professor Quirrell had way
more background information than he was telling, his priors were simply
too good. Sometimes he got his amazing deductions right even when his
reasons were wrong. The problem was that Harry couldn’t see how
Professor Quirrell could’ve sneaked in an extra clue about half the
stuff he guessed. Just once Harry would have liked to make some sort of
incredible deduction from something Professor Quirrell said which would
catch him completely off guard.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“I shall have a bowl of green lentil soup, with soy sauce,” Professor
Quirrell said to the waitress. “And for Mr Potter, a plate of Tenorman’s
family chilli.”

Harry hesitated in sudden dismay. He’d resolved to stick to vegetarian
dishes for the moment, but he’d forgotten in his deliberations that
Professor Quirrell did the actual ordering—and it would be awkward if he
protested now—

The waitress bowed to them, and turned to go—

“Erm, excuse me, any meat in that from snakes or flying squirrels?”

The waitress didn’t so much as blink an eye, only turned back to Harry,
shook her head, bowed politely to him again, and resumed her walk toward
the door.

(The other parts of Harry were snickering at him. Gryffindor was making
sardonic comments about how a little social discomfort was enough to get
him to resort to Cannibalism! (shouted by Hufflepuff), and Slytherin was
remarking on how nice it was that Harry’s ethics were flexible when it
came to important goals like maintaining his relationship with Professor
Quirrell.)

After the waitress had closed the door behind her, Professor Quirrell
waved a hand to slide home the locking bar, spoke the usual four Charms
to ensure privacy, and then said, “An interesting question, Mr Potter. I
wonder why you asked it?”

Harry kept his face steady. “I was looking up some facts about the
Patronus Charm earlier,” he said. “According to The Patronus Charm:
Wizards Who Could and Couldn’t, it turns out that Godric couldn’t and
Salazar could. I was surprised, so I looked up the reference, in Four
Lives of Power. And then I discovered that Salazar Slytherin could
supposedly talk to snakes.” (Temporal sequence wasn’t the same as
causation, it wasn’t Harry’s fault if Professor Quirrell missed that.)
“Further research turned up an old story about a mother goddess type who
could talk to flying squirrels. I was a bit worried about the prospect
of eating something that could talk.”

And Harry took a casual sip of his water—

—just as Professor Quirrell said, “Mr Potter, would I be correct in
guessing that you are also a Parselmouth?”

When Harry was done coughing, he set his glass of water back down on the
table, fixed his gaze on Professor Quirrell’s chin rather than looking
him in the eyes, and said, “So you are able to perform Legilimency
through my Occlumency barriers, then.”

Professor Quirrell was grinning widely. “I shall take that as a
compliment, Mr Potter, but no.”

“I’m not buying this any more,” Harry said. “There’s no way you came to
that conclusion based on that evidence.”

“Of course not,” Professor Quirrell said equably. “I had planned to ask
you that question today in any case, and simply chose an opportune
moment. I have suspected since December, in fact—”

“December?” said Harry. “I found out yesterday!”

“Ah, so you did not realize the Sorting Hat’s message to you was in
Parseltongue?”

The Defence Professor had timed it exactly right the second time, too,
just as Harry was taking a gulp of water to clear out his throat from
the first coughing fit.

Harry hadn’t realized, not until just now. Of course it was obvious the
instant Professor Quirrell said it. Right, Professor McGonagall had even
told him not to talk to snakes where anyone could see him, but he’d
thought she’d meant not to be seen talking to any statues or
architectural features in Hogwarts that looked like snakes. Double
illusion of transparency, he’d thought he understood her, she’d thought
he understood her—but how the hell—

“So,” Harry said, “you performed Legilimency on me during my first
Defence class, to find out what happened with the Sorting Hat—”

“Then I would not have found out in December.” Professor Quirrell leaned
back, smiling. “This is not a puzzle you can solve on your own,
Mr Potter, so I will reveal the answer. Over the winter holiday, I was
alerted to the fact that the Headmaster had filed a request for a closed
judicial panel to review the case of one Mr Rubeus Hagrid, whom you know
as the Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts, and who was accused of
the murder of Abigail Myrtle in 1943.”

“Oh, of course,” said Harry, “that makes it downright obvious that I’m a
Parselmouth. Professor, what the sweet slithering snakes—”

“The other suspect for that murder was Slytherin’s Monster, the
legendary inhabitant of Slytherin’s Chamber of Secrets. Which is why
certain sources alerted me to the fact, and why it caught my attention
sufficiently that I spent a good deal of bribe money to learn the
details of the case. Now in point of fact, Mr Potter, Mr Hagrid is
innocent. Ridiculously obviously innocent. He is the most blatantly
innocent bystander to be convicted by the magical British legal system
since Grindelwald’s Confunding of Neville Chamberlain was pinned on
Amanda Knox. Headmaster Dippet prompted a student puppet to accuse
Mr Hagrid because Dippet needed a scapegoat to take the blame for the
death of Miss Myrtle, and our marvellous justice system agreed that this
was plausible enough to warrant Mr Hagrid’s expulsion and the snapping
of his wand. Our current Headmaster needs merely provide some new item
of evidence significant enough to reconvene the case; and with
Dumbledore applying pressure instead of Dippet, the result is a foregone
conclusion. Lucius Malfoy has no particular reason to fear Mr Hagrid’s
vindication; thus Lucius Malfoy will only resist to the extent that he
can do so without penalty in order to impose costs on Dumbledore, and
Dumbledore is clearly willing to prosecute the case regardless.”

Professor Quirrell took a sip of his water. “But I digress. The new
evidence that the Headmaster promises to provide is to exhibit a
previously undetected spell on the Sorting Hat, which, the Headmaster
asserts, he has personally determined to respond only to Slytherins who
are also Parselmouths. The Headmaster further argues that this favours
the interpretation that the Chamber of Secrets was indeed opened in
1943, approximately the right time frame for He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, a
known Parselmouth, to have attended Hogwarts. It is a rather
questionable logic, but a judicial panel may rule that it swings the
case far enough to bring Mr Hagrid’s guilt into doubt, if they can
manage to keep a straight face as they say it. And now we come to the
key question: how did the Headmaster discover this hidden spell on the
Sorting Hat?”

Professor Quirrell was smiling thinly now. “Well now, let us suppose
that there was a Parselmouth in this year’s crop of students, a
potential Heir of Slytherin. You must admit, Mr Potter, that you stand
out as a possibility whenever extraordinary people are considered. And
if I then further ask myself which new Slytherin would be most likely to
have his mental privacy invaded by the Headmaster, specifically hunting
the memories of his Sorting, why, you stand out even more.” The smile
vanished. “So you see, Mr Potter, it was not I who invaded your mind,
though I will not ask you to apologize. It is not your fault that you
believed Dumbledore’s protestations of respecting your mental privacy.”

“My sincere apologies,” Harry said, keeping his face expressionless. The
rigid control was a confession in its own right, as was the sweat
beading his forehead; but he didn’t think the Defence Professor would
take any evidence from that. Professor Quirrell would just think Harry
was nervous at having been discovered as the Heir of Slytherin. Rather
than being nervous that Professor Quirrell might realize that Harry had
deliberately betrayed Slytherin’s secret… which itself was no longer
seeming like such a smart move.

“So, Mr Potter. Any progress on finding the Chamber of Secrets?”

No, thought Harry. But to maintain plausible deniability, you needed a
general policy of sometimes evading questions even when you had nothing
to hide… “With respect, Professor Quirrell, if I had made such progress,
it is not quite obvious to me that I should tell you about it.”

Professor Quirrell sipped from his own water glass again. “Well then,
Mr Potter, I shall freely tell you what I know or suspect. First, I
believe the Chamber of Secrets is real, as is Slytherin’s Monster.
Miss Myrtle’s death was not discovered until hours after her demise,
even though the wards should have alerted the Headmaster instantly.
Therefore her murder was performed either by Headmaster Dippet, which is
unlikely, or by some entity which Salazar Slytherin keyed into his wards
at a higher level than the Headmaster himself. Second, I suspect that
contrary to popular legend, the purpose of Slytherin’s Monster was not
to rid Hogwarts of Muggle-borns. Unless Slytherin’s Monster were
powerful enough to defeat the Headmaster of Hogwarts and all the
teachers, it could not triumph by force. Multiple murders in secrecy
would result in the school’s closure, as nearly happened in 1943, or in
the placing of new wards. So why Slytherin’s Monster, Mr Potter? What
true purpose does it serve?”

“Ah…” Harry dropped his gaze to his water glass and tried to think. “To
kill anyone who got into the Chamber and didn’t belong there—”

“A monster powerful enough to defeat a team of wizards that had broken
past the best wards Salazar could place on his Chamber? Unlikely.”

Harry was feeling a bit pressured now. “Well, it’s called the Chamber of
Secrets, so maybe the Monster has a secret, or is a secret?” For that
matter, just what sort of secrets were in the Chamber of Secrets in the
first place? Harry hadn’t done a lot of research on the subject, in part
because he’d got the impression that nobody knew anything—

Professor Quirrell was smiling. “Why not just write the secret down?”

“Ahhh…” said Harry. “Because if the Monster spoke Parseltongue, that
would ensure that only a true descendant of Slytherin could hear the
secret?”

“Easy enough to key the wards on the Chamber to a phrase spoken in
Parseltongue. Why go to the trouble of creating Slytherin’s Monster? It
cannot have been easy to create a creature with a lifespan of centuries.
Come, Mr Potter, it should be obvious; what are the secrets that can be
told from one living mind to another, but never written down?”

Harry saw it then, with a burst of adrenaline that started his heart
racing, his breath coming faster. “Oh.”

Salazar Slytherin had been very cunning indeed. Cunning enough to come
up with a way to bypass the Interdict of Merlin.

Powerful wizardries couldn’t be transmitted through books or ghosts, but
if you could create a long-lived enough sentient creature with a good
enough memory—

“It seems very probable to me,” said Professor Quirrell, “that
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named began his climb to power with secrets obtained
from Slytherin’s Monster. That Salazar’s lost knowledge is the source of
You-Know-Who’s extraordinarily powerful wizardry. Hence my interest in
the Chamber of Secrets and the case of Mr Hagrid.”

“I see,” Harry said. And if he, Harry, could find Salazar’s Chamber of
Secrets… then all of the lost knowledge that Lord Voldemort had obtained
would be his as well.

Yes. That was just how the story should go.

Add in Harry’s superior intelligence and some original magical research
and some Muggle rocket launchers, and the resulting fight would be
completely one-sided, which was exactly how Harry wanted it.

Harry was grinning now, a very evil grin. New priority: Find everything
in Hogwarts that looks remotely like a snake and try speaking to it.
Starting with everything you’ve already tried, only this time be sure to
use Parseltongue instead of English—get Draco to let you into the
Slytherin dorms—

“Don’t become too excited, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell. His own
face had become expressionless, now. “You must continue thinking. What
were the Dark Lord’s parting words to Slytherin’s Monster?”

“What?” Harry said. “How could either of us possibly know that?”

“Visualize the scene, Mr Potter. Let your imagination fill in the
details. Slytherin’s Monster—probably some great serpent, so that only a
Parselmouth may speak to it—has finished imparting all of the knowledge
it possesses to He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. It conveys to him Salazar’s
final benediction, and warns him that the Chamber of Secrets must now
remain closed until the next descendant of Salazar should prove cunning
enough to open it. And he who will become the Dark Lord nods, and says
to it—”

“Avada Kedavra,” said Harry, suddenly feeling sick to his stomach.

“Rule Twelve,” Professor Quirrell said quietly. “Never leave the source
of your power lying around where someone else can find it.”

Harry’s gaze dropped to the tablecloth, which had decorated itself in a
mournful pattern of black flowers and shadows. Somehow that seemed… too
sad to be imagined, Slytherin’s great snake had only wanted to help Lord
Voldemort, and Lord Voldemort had just… there was something unbearably
sorrowful about it, what sort of person would do that to a being who’d
offered them nothing but friendship… “Do you think the Dark Lord would
have—”

“Yes,” Professor Quirrell said flatly. “He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named left
quite a trail of bodies behind him, Mr Potter; I doubt he would have
omitted that one. If there were any artifacts left there that could be
moved, the Dark Lord would have taken those with him as well. There
might still be something worth seeing in the Chamber of Secrets, and to
find it would prove yourself the true Heir of Slytherin. But do not
raise your hopes too high. I suspect that all you will find is the
remains of Slytherin’s Monster resting quietly in its grave.”

They sat in silence for a while.

“I could be wrong,” said Professor Quirrell. “In the end it is only a
guess. But I did wish to warn you, Mr Potter, so that you would not be
too sorely disappointed.”

Harry nodded shortly.

“One might even regret your infant self’s victory,” said Professor
Quirrell. His smile twisted. “If only You-Know-Who had lived, you might
have persuaded him to teach you some of the knowledge that would have
been your heritage, from one Heir of Slytherin to another.” The smile
twisted further, as though to mock the obvious impossibility, even given
the premise.

Note to self, thought Harry, with a slight chill and an edge of anger,
make sure to extract my heritage out of the Dark Lord’s mind, one way or
another.

There was another silence. Professor Quirrell was looking at Harry as
though waiting for him to ask something.

“Well,” said Harry, “so long as we’re on the topic, can I ask how you
think the whole Parselmouth business actually—”

There came a knock at the door, then. Professor Quirrell raised a
cautionary finger, then opened the door with a wave. The waitress
entered, balancing a huge platter with their meals as though the whole
assembly weighed nothing (which was in fact probably the case). She gave
Professor Quirrell his bowl of green soup, and a glass of his usual
Chianti; and set down before Harry a plate of small meat strips
smothered in a heavy-looking sauce, plus a glass of his accustomed
treacle soda. Then she bowed, managing to make it seem like sincere
respect rather than perfunctory acknowledgement, and departed.

When she was gone, Professor Quirrell held up a finger for silence
again, and drew his wand.

And then Professor Quirrell began performing a certain series of
incantations that Harry recognized, making him take a sharp breath. It
was the series and ordering that Mr Bester had used, the full set of
twenty-seven spells that you would perform before discussing anything of
truly great import.

If the discussion of the Chamber of Secrets hadn’t counted as important—

When Professor Quirrell was done—he’d performed thirty spells, three of
which Harry hadn’t heard before—the Defence Professor said, “Now we
shall not be interrupted for a time. Can you keep a secret, Mr Potter?”

Harry nodded.

“A serious secret, Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said. His eyes were
intent, his face grave. “One which could potentially send me to Azkaban.
Think about it before you reply.”

For a moment Harry didn’t even see why the question should be hard,
given his growing collection of secrets. Then—

If this secret could send Professor Quirrell to Azkaban, that means he’s
done something illegal…

Harry’s brain performed a few calculations. Whatever the secret,
Professor Quirrell did not think his illegal act would reflect badly on
him in Harry’s eyes. There was no advantage to be gained from not
hearing it. And if it did reveal something wrong with Professor
Quirrell, then it was very much to Harry’s advantage to know it, even if
he had promised not to tell anyone.

“I never had very much respect for authority,” Harry said. “Legal and
governmental authority included. I will keep your secret.”

Harry didn’t bother asking whether the revelation was worth the danger
it would pose to Professor Quirrell. The Defence Professor wasn’t
stupid.

“Then I must test whether you are truly a descendant of Salazar,” said
Professor Quirrell, and stood up from his chair. Harry, prompted more by
reflex and instinct than calculation, shoved himself up out of his own
chair as well.

There was a blur, a shift, a sudden motion.

Harry aborted his panicked backward leap halfway through, leaving him
wind-milling his arms and trying not to fall over, a frantic flush of
adrenaline running through him.

At the other end of the room swayed a snake a metre high, bright green
and intricately banded in white and blue. Harry didn’t know enough snake
lore to recognize it, but he knew that ‘brightly coloured’ meant
‘poisonous’.

The constant sense of doom had diminished, ironically enough, after the
Defence Professor of Hogwarts had turned into a venomous snake.

Harry swallowed hard and said, “Greetings—ah, hssss, no, ah,
greetingss.”

“Sso,” hissed the snake. “You sspeak, I hear. I sspeak, you hear?”

“Yess, I hear,” hissed Harry. “You are an Animaguss?”

“Obvioussly,” hissed the snake. “Thirty-sseven ruless, number
thirty-four: Become Animaguss. All ssenssible people do, if can. Thuss,
very rare.” The snake’s eyes were flat surfaces ensconced within dark
pits, sharp black pupils in dark grey fields. “Thiss iss mosst ssecure
way to sspeak. You ssee? No otherss undersstand uss.”

“Even if they are ssnake Animagi?”

“Not unlesss heir of Sslytherin willss.” The snake gave a series of
short hisses which Harry’s brain translated as sardonic laughter.
“Sslytherin not sstupid. Ssnake Animaguss not ssame ass Parsselmouth.
Would be huge flaw in sscheme.”

Well that definitely argued that Parseltongue was personal magic, not
snakes being sentient beings with a learnable language—

“I am not regisstered,” hissed the snake. The dark pits of its eyes
stared at Harry. “Animaguss musst be regisstered. Penalty iss two yearss
imprissonment. Will you keep my ssecret, boy?”

“Yess,” hissed Harry. “Would never break promisse.”

The snake seemed to hold still, as though in shock, and then began to
sway again. “We come here nexst in sseven dayss. Bring cloak to passs
unsseen, bring hourglasss to move through time—”

“You know?” hissed Harry in shock. “How—”

Again the series of short quick hisses that translated as sardonic
laughter. “You arrive in my firsst classs while sstill in other classs,
sstrike down enemy with pie, two ballss of memory—”

“Never mind,” hissed Harry. “Sstupid quesstion, forgot you were ssmart.”

“Foolissh thing to forget,” said the snake, but the hiss did not seem
offended.

“Hourglasss iss resstricted,” Harry said. “Cannot usse until ninth
hour.”

The snake twitched its head, a snakish nod. “Many resstrictionss. Locked
to your usse only, cannot be sstolen. Cannot transsport other humanss.
But ssnake carried in pouch, I ssusspect will go with. Think posssible
to hold hourglasss motionlesss within sshell, without dissturbing
wardss, while you turn sshell around it. We will tesst in sseven dayss.
Will not sspeak of planss beyond thiss. You ssay nothing, to no-one.
Give no ssign of exspectancy, none. Undersstand?”

Harry nodded.

“Sspeak.”

“Yess.”

“Will do ass I ssaid?”

“Yess. But,” Harry gave a wobbling rasp that was how his mind had
translated a hesitant ‘Ahhh’ into snakish, “I do not promissse to do
whatever thisss isss, you have not sssaid—”

The snake performed a shiver that Harry’s mind translated as a severe
glare. “Of coursse not. Will disscusss sspecificss at nexst meeting.”

The blur and motion reversed itself, and Professor Quirrell was standing
there once more. For a moment the Defence Professor himself seemed to
sway, as the snake had swayed, and his eyes seemed cold and flat; and
then his shoulders straightened and he was human once more.

And the aura of doom had returned.

Professor Quirrell’s chair scooted back for him, and he sat down in it.
“No sense in letting this go to waste,” Professor Quirrell said as he
picked up his spoon, “though at the moment I would much prefer a live
mouse. One can never quite disentangle the mind from the body it wears,
you see…”

Harry slowly took his seat and began eating.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“So the line of Salazar did not die with You-Know-Who after all,” said
Professor Quirrell after a time. “It would seem that rumours have
already begun to spread, among our fine student body, that you are Dark;
I wonder what they would think, if they knew that.”

“Or if they knew that I had destroyed a Dementor,” Harry said, and
shrugged. “I figure all the fuss will blow over the next time I do
something interesting. Hermione is having trouble, though, and I was
wondering if you might have any suggestions for her.”

The Defence Professor ate several spoonfuls of soup in silence, then;
and when he spoke again, his voice was oddly flat. “You really care
about that girl.”

“Yes,” Harry said quietly.

“I suppose that is why she was able to bring you out of your
Dementation?”

“More or less,” Harry said. The statement was true in a way, just not
exact; it was not that his Demented self had cared, but that it had been
confused.

“I did not have any friends like that when I was young.” Still the same
emotionless voice. “What would have become of you, I wonder, if you had
been alone?”

Harry shivered before he could stop himself.

“You must be feeling grateful to her.”

Harry just nodded. Not quite exact, but true.

“Then here is what I might have done at your age, if there had been
anyone to do it for—”

50. Self Centeredness

PADMA Patil had finished her dinner a little late, getting on toward
seven-thirty, and was now striding quickly out of the Great Hall on her
way to the Ravenclaw dorm and the study rooms. Gossiping was fun and
destroying Granger’s reputation was more fun, but it could distract from
schoolwork. She’d put off a six-inch essay on lomillialor wood due in
next morning’s Herbology class, and she needed to finish it tonight.

It was while she was passing through a long, twisting, narrow stone
corridor that the whisper came, sounding like it was coming from right
behind her.

“Padma Patil…”

She spun around quick as lightning, her wand already snatched up from a
pocket of her robes and leaping into her hands, if Harry Potter thought
he could sneak up on and scare her that easily—

There was no-one there.

Instantly Padma spun around and looked in the other direction, if it had
been a Ventriloquism Charm—

There was no-one there, either.

The whispering sigh came again, soft and dangerous with a slight hissing
undertone.

“Padma Patil, Slytherin girl…”

“Harry Potter, Slytherin boy,” she said out loud.

She’d fought Potter and his Chaos Legion a dozen times over, and she
knew that this was Harry Potter doing this somehow…

…even though the Ventriloquism Charm was only line-of-sight, and in the
winding corridor, she could easily see all the way to the nearest twist
both forward and backward, and there was no-one there…

…it didn’t matter. She knew her enemy.

There was a whispering chuckle, now coming from beside her, and she spun
around and pointed her wand at the whisper and shouted “Luminos!”

The red bolt of light shot out and struck the wall, which lit with a
crimson glow that soon faded.

She hadn’t really expected it to work. Harry Potter couldn’t possibly be
invisible, not really invisible, that was magic most grown-ups couldn’t
do, and she’d never believed nine-tenths of the stories about him.

The whispering voice laughed again, now on her other side.

“Harry Potter stands on the precipice,” whispered the voice, now
sounding very close to her ear, “he is wavering, but you, you are
already falling, Slytherin girl…”

“The hat never called out Slytherin for my name, Potter!” She backed up
against the wall, so she wouldn’t have to watch behind herself, and
raised her wand in an attack stance.

Again the soft laugh. “Harry Potter has been in the Ravenclaw common
room for the last half-hour, helping Kevin Entwhistle and Michael Corner
rehearse Potions recipes. But it matters not. I am here to deliver a
warning to you, Padma Patil, and if you choose to ignore it, that is
your own affair.”

“Fine,” she said coldly. “Go ahead and warn me, Potter, I’m not afraid
of you.”

“Slytherin was a great House, once,” said the whisper; it sounded
sadder, now. “Slytherin was once a House you would have been proud to
choose, Padma Patil. But something turned wrong, something turned sour;
do you know what went awry in Slytherin House, Padma Patil?”

“No, and I don’t care!”

“But you should care,” said the whisper, now coming from just behind her
head as it almost touched the wall. “For you are still that girl whom
the Sorting Hat offered that choice. Do you think that just choosing
Ravenclaw means that you are not Pansy Parkinson, and will not ever
become Pansy Parkinson, no matter how you conduct yourself otherwise?”

Despite everything, now, small chills of fear were spreading out from
her spine and running over her skin. She’d heard those stories about
Harry Potter too, that he was a secret Legilimens. But she still stood
straight, and she put all the bite she could into her voice when she
said, “The Slytherins went Dark to get power, just like you did, Potter.
And I won’t, not ever.”

“But you’ll spread vicious rumours about an innocent girl,” whispered
the voice, “even though it will not help you attain any of your own
ambitions, and without considering that she has powerful allies who
might take offense. That is not the proud Slytherin of the old days,
Padma Patil, that is not the pride of Salazar, that is Slytherin gone
rotten, Padma Parkinson not Padma Malfoy…”

She was getting more spooked than she ever had been in her life, and the
possibility was starting to occur to her that this might really be a
ghost. She hadn’t ever heard that ghosts could hide themselves like
this, but maybe they just didn’t usually do it—not to mention that most
ghosts weren’t this eerie, they were just dead people after all—“Who are
you? The Bloody Baron?”

“When Harry Potter was bullied and beaten,” the voice whispered, “he
commanded all his allies to refrain from vengeance; do you remember
that, Padma Patil? For Harry Potter is wavering, but not yet lost; he is
struggling, he knows himself to be in peril. But Hermione Granger made
no such request of her own allies. Harry Potter is angered with you now,
Padma Patil, more angered than he would ever be on his own behalf… and
he has allies of his own.”

A shudder went through her, she knew that it was visible and she hated
herself for it.

“Oh, don’t be afraid,” breathed the voice. “I will not hurt you. For you
see, Padma Patil, Hermione Granger truly is innocent. She does not stand
on the precipice, she is not falling. She did not ask her allies to
refrain from hurting you, because the thought did not even occur to her
as a possibility. And Harry Potter knows very well that if he hurt you
or caused you to be hurt, for Hermione Granger’s sake, then she would
never speak to him again until the Sun burned low and the last star
failed in the night sky.” The voice was very sad now. “She truly is a
kindly girl, a person such as I could only wish to be…”

“Granger can’t cast the Patronus Charm!” said Padma. “If she was really
as nice as she pretends to be—”

“Can you cast the Patronus Charm, Padma Patil? You dared not even
attempt it, you feared what the result would be.”

“That’s not true! I didn’t have time, that was all!”

The whisper continued. “But Hermione Granger did try, openly before her
friends, and when her magic failed she was surprised and dismayed. For
there are secrets to the Patronus Charm that few ever knew, and maybe
none now know but I.” A soft, whispering chuckle. “Let it stand that it
is no stain on her spirit that halts her light from coming forth.
Hermione Granger cannot cast the Patronus Charm for the very same reason
that Godric Gryffindor, who raised these halls, never could.”

The corridor was becoming colder, she was certain of it, as though
someone were using the Chilling Charm.

“And Harry Potter is not Hermione Granger’s only ally.” Now there was an
undertone of dry amusement in that whisper, it reminded her suddenly and
frighteningly of Professor Quirrell. “Filius Flitwick and Minerva
McGonagall are quite fond of her, I do believe. Did it occur to you that
if those two learned what you were doing to Hermione Granger, they might
become less fond of you? They might not intervene openly, perhaps; but
they might be a little slower to award you House Points, a little slower
to steer opportunities your way—”

“Potter sneaked on me?”

A ghostly chuckle, a dry heh-heh-heh. “Do you think those two are
stupid, deaf and blind?” In a sadder whisper, “Do you think Hermione
Granger is not precious to them, that they will not see her hurting? As
they might have been fond of you once, their bright young Padma Patil,
but you are throwing it away…”

Padma’s throat was dry. She hadn’t thought of that, not at all.

“I wonder how many people will end up caring for you, Padma Patil, on
this path that you now tread. Is it worth that much, just to distance
yourself further from your sister? To be the shadow to Parvati’s light?
Your deepest fear has always been to fall into harmony with her, back
into harmony with her I should say; but is it worth hurting an innocent
girl, just to make yourself that much more different? Must you be the
evil twin, Padma Patil, can you not find a different good to pursue?”

Her heart was hammering in her chest. She’d, she’d never talked about
that with anyone—

“I have always wondered at how students bully each other,” sighed the
voice. “How children make life difficult for themselves, how they turn
their schools into prisons even with their own hands. Why do human
beings make their own lives so unpleasant? I can give you a part of the
answer, Padma Patil. It is because people do not stop and think before
causing pain, if they do not imagine that they themselves could also be
hurt, that they might also suffer from their own misdeeds. But suffer
you will, oh, yes, Padma Patil, suffer you will, if you stay on this
road. You will suffer the same pain of loneliness, the same pain of
others’ fear and distrust, that you now inflict on Hermione Granger.
Only for you it will be deserved.”

Her wand was shaking in her hand.

“You did not choose sides when you went to Ravenclaw, girl. You choose
your side by the way you live your life, what you do to other people and
what you do to yourself. Will you illuminate others’ lives, or darken
them? That is the choice between Light and Dark, not any word the
Sorting Hat cries out. And the hard part, Padma Patil, is not saying
‘Light’, the hard part is deciding which is which, and admitting it to
yourself when you begin down the wrong road.”

There was silence. It went on for a time, and Padma realized that she
had been dismissed.

Padma almost dropped her wand, when she tried to put it back into her
pocket. She almost fell, when she took a step forward away from the
wall, and turned to go—

“I have not always chosen rightly between Light and Dark,” the whisper
said, now loud and harsh directly into her ear. “Do not take my wisdom
as a final word, girl, do not fear to question it, for though I have
tried I have sometimes failed, oh, yes, I have failed. But you are
hurting a true innocent, and you will achieve none of your ambitions by
doing so; it is not for any cunning plan. You are inflicting pain purely
for the sake of the pleasure it brings you. I have not always chosen
rightly between Light and Dark, but that I know is darkness, for
certain. You are hurting an innocent girl, and escaping retribution only
because she is too kindly to tolerate her allies moving against you. I
cannot hurt you for that, so know only that I cannot respect it. You are
unworthy of Slytherin; go and do your Herbology homework, Ravenclaw
girl!”

The final whisper came out in a louder hiss that sounded almost like a
snake, and Padma fled, she fled down the corridors as if Lethifolds were
chasing her, she ran heedless of the rules about running in the
corridors, even when she passed other students who looked at her in
surprise, she did not stop, she ran all the way to the Ravenclaw dorms
with her pulse pounding in her neck, the door asked her “Why does the
Sun shine in the day and not at night?” and it took her three tries
before she could make her answer coherent, and then the door came open
and she saw—

—a few girls and boys, some young and some old, all staring at her, and
in one corner at the pentagonal table, Harry Potter and Michael Corner
and Kevin Entwhistle, looking up from their textbooks.

“Sweet Merlin!” exclaimed Penelope Clearwater, rising from a couch.
“What happened to you, Padma?”

“I,” she stuttered, “I, I heard—a ghost—”

“It wasn’t the Bloody Baron, was it?” said Clearwater. She drew her wand
and a moment later she was holding a cup, and then an Aguamenti later
the cup was filled with water. “Here, drink this, sit down—”

Padma was already striding toward the pentagonal table. She looked at
Harry Potter, who was looking at her with his own gaze, calm and grave
and a little sad.

“You did this!” Padma said. “How—you—how dare you!”

There was a sudden hush in the Ravenclaw dorm.

Harry just looked at her.

And said, “Is there anything I can help you with?”

“Don’t deny it,” Padma said, her voice shaking, “you set that ghost on
me, it said—”

“I mean it,” Harry said. “Can I help you with anything? Get you some
food, or go fetch a soda for you, or help you with your homework, or
anything like that?”

Everyone was staring at the two of them.

“Why?” Padma said. She couldn’t think of anything else to say, she
didn’t understand.

“Because some of us are standing on the precipice,” Harry said. “And the
difference is what you do for other people. Will you let me help you
with something, Padma, please?”

She stared at him, and knew, in that moment, that he’d had his own
warning, same as her.

“I…” she said. “I’ve got to write six inches on lomillialor—”

“Let me run up to my dorm and get my Herbology stuff,” Harry said. He
rose from the pentagonal table, looked at Entwhistle and Corner. “Sorry,
guys, I’ll see you later.”

They didn’t say anything, just stared, along with everyone else in the
dorm room, as Harry Potter walked over to the stairs.

And just as he started up, he said, “And no-one’s to pester her with
questions unless she wants to talk about it, I hope everyone’s got
that?”

“Got it,” said most of the first-years and some of the older students, a
few of them sounding quite scared.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And she talked about a lot of things with Harry Potter besides
lomillialor wood—even her fear of falling back into harmony with
Parvati, which she’d never talked about with anyone before, but then
Harry’s ghostly ally already knew. And Harry had reached into his pouch
and pulled out some odd books, loaning them to her on condition of
complete secrecy, saying that if she could comprehend those books it
would change the pattern of her thinking enough that she’d never fall
into harmony with Parvati again…

At nine o’clock, when Harry said he had to go, the essay was only half
done.

And when Harry paused, and looked at her on the way out, and said that
he thought she was worthy of Slytherin, it made her feel good for a
whole minute before she realized what had just been said to her and who
had said it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Padma got down to breakfast, that morning, she saw Mandy see her
and whisper something to the girl sitting beside her at the Ravenclaw
table.

She saw that girl get up from the bench and walk toward her.

Last night Padma had been glad that girl slept in the other dorm; but
now that she thought about it, this was worse, now she had to do it in
front of everyone.

But even though Padma was sweating, she knew what she had to do.

The girl came closer—

“I’m sorry.”

“What?” said Padma. That was her line.

“I’m sorry,” repeated Hermione Granger. Her voice was loud so that
everyone could hear. “I… I didn’t ask Harry to do that, and I was angry
with him when I found out, and I made him promise not to do it again to
anyone, and I’m not talking to him for a week… I’m really, really sorry,
Miss Patil.”

Hermione Granger’s back was stiff, her face was stiff, you could see the
sweat on her face.

“Um,” said Padma. Her own thoughts were pretty much scrambled, now…

Padma’s gaze flicked to the Ravenclaw table, where one boy was watching
them with tight eyes and his hands clenched in his lap.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earlier

“I told you to be nicer!” shrieked Hermione.

Harry was starting to sweat. He’d never actually heard Hermione scream
at him before, and it was quite loud in the empty classroom.

“I—but—but I was nice!” Harry protested. “I practically redeemed her,
Padma was going down the wrong path and I turned her off it! I probably
changed her whole life to be happier! Besides, you should’ve heard the
original version of what Professor Quirrell suggested I do—” at which
point Harry realized what he was saying and closed his mouth a second
too late.

Hermione clutched at her chestnut curls, a gesture Harry hadn’t seen
from her before. “What’d he say to do? Kill her?”

The Defence Professor had suggested that Harry identify all the key
influential students inside and outside his year and try to gain control
of the entire Hogwarts rumour mill, remarking that this was a generally
useful and amusing challenge for any true Slytherin attending Hogwarts.

“Nothing like that,” Harry said quickly, “he just said in a general way
that I should get influence over the people spreading rumours, and I
decided that the nice version of that would be to just inform Padma
directly about the meaning of what she was doing, and the possible
consequences of her actions, instead of trying to threaten her or
anything like that—”

“You call that not threatening someone?” Hermione’s hands were pulling
at her hair now.

“Um…” Harry said. “I guess she might’ve felt a little threatened, but
Hermione, people will do whatever they think they can get away with,
they don’t care about how much it hurts other people if it doesn’t hurt
themselves, if Padma thinks there’s no consequences to spreading lies
about you then of course she’ll just go on doing it—”

“And you think there’s going to be no consequences to what you did?”

Harry got a sudden sick feeling to his stomach.

Hermione had the angriest look on her that he’d ever seen. “What do you
think the other students think of you now, Harry? Of me? If Harry
doesn’t like the way you talk about Hermione, you’ll get ghosts set on
you, is that what you want them to think?”

Harry opened his mouth and no words came out, he just… hadn’t thought
about it that way, actually…

Hermione reached down to grab her books from the table where she’d
slammed them. “I’m not talking to you for a week, and I’ll tell everyone
I’m not talking to you for a week, and I’ll tell them why, and maybe
that’ll undo some of what you just did. And after that week, I’ll—I’ll
decide then what to do, I guess—”

“Hermione!” Harry’s own voice rose to a shriek of desperation. “I was
trying to help!”

The girl turned back and looked at him as she opened the classroom door.

“Harry,” she said, and her voice trembled a little beneath the anger,
“Professor Quirrell is sucking you into the darkness, he really is, I
mean it, Harry.”

“This… wasn’t him, this wasn’t what he said to do, this was just me—”

Hermione’s voice was almost a whisper now. “Someday you’re going to go
out to lunch with him, and it will be your dark side that comes back, or
maybe even you won’t come back at all.”

“I promise you,” Harry said, “that I will come back from lunch.”

He wasn’t even thinking as he said it.

And Hermione just turned around and strode out and slammed the door
behind her.

Way to invoke the laws of dramatic irony, moron, observed Harry’s
Internal Critic. Now you’re going to die this Saturday, your last words
will be ‘I’m sorry, Hermione’, and she’ll always regret that the last
thing she did was slam the door—

Oh, shut up.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Padma sat down with Hermione for breakfast, and said in a voice
loud enough for others to hear that the ghost had just told her things
that were important for her to hear, and Harry Potter had been right to
do it, there were some people who were less frightened afterwards, and
some who were frightened more.

And afterwards people did say fewer nasty things about Hermione, at
least in the first year, at least in public where Harry Potter might
hear about it.

When Professor Flitwick asked Harry if he was responsible for what had
happened to Padma, and Harry said yes, Professor Flitwick told him that
he was to serve two days’ detention. Even if it had only been a ghost
and Padma hadn’t been hurt, still, that wasn’t acceptable behaviour for
a Ravenclaw student. Harry nodded and said that he understood why the
Professor had to do that, and wouldn’t protest; but considering that it
did seem to have turned Padma around, did Professor Flitwick really
think, off the record, that he’d done the wrong thing? And Professor
Flitwick paused, seeming to actually think about it, and then said to
Harry, in a solemnly squeaky voice, that he needed to learn how to
relate to other students the normal way.

And Harry couldn’t help but think that this was advice that Professor
Quirrell would never give him.

Harry couldn’t help but think that if he’d done it Professor Quirrell’s
way, the normal Slytherin way, a mixture of positive and negative
incentives to bring Padma and the other rumour-mongers under his
explicit control, then Padma wouldn’t have talked about it, and Hermione
would have never found out…

…in which case Padma wouldn’t have been redeemed, she would have stayed
on the wrong path, and she herself would have suffered from that
eventually. It wasn’t as if Harry had lied to Padma in any way, when he
was Time-Turned and invisible and using the Ventriloquism Charm.

Harry still wasn’t sure whether he’d done the right thing, or a right
thing, and Hermione hadn’t relented on not talking to him—though she was
talking a lot with Padma. It hurt more than Harry had expected, going
back to studying by himself; like his brain had already started to
forget its long-honed skill of being alone.

The days until Saturday’s lunch with Professor Quirrell seemed to go by
very, very slowly.

51. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part I

SATURDAY.

Harry had run into trouble falling asleep Friday night, which he had
anticipated might happen, and so he had decided to take the obvious
advance precaution of buying a sleeping potion; and to prevent it from
constituting a visible sign that he was nervous, he had decided to buy
it off Fred and George a couple of months earlier. (Be prepared, that’s
the Boy Scout’s marching song…)

Thus Harry was fully rested, and his pouch contained almost everything
which he owned and might conceivably need. Harry had, in fact, run into
the volume limitation on the pouch; and keeping in mind that he would
need to store a large snake, and might need to store who-knew-what-else,
he had removed some of the bulkier items, like the car battery. He was
up to the point now where he could Transfigure something the size of a
car battery in four minutes flat, so it wasn’t much of a loss.

Harry had kept the emergency flares and the oxyacetylene welding torch
and fuel tank, since you couldn’t just Transfigure things that were to
be burned.

(Be prepared, as through life you march along…)

Mary’s Place.

After the waitress had taken their order and bowed to them and left the
room, Professor Quirrell had performed only four Charms, and then they’d
talked about nothing of any vast consequence, just Professor Quirrell’s
complex thesis about how the Dark Lord’s curse on the Defence position
had led to the decline of duelling and how this had changed social
customs in magical Britain. Harry listened and nodded and said
intelligent things, while he tried to control the pounding of his heart.

Then the waitress came in again bearing their food, and this time, a
minute after the waitress had departed, Professor Quirrell gestured for
the door to close and lock, and began to speak twenty-nine security
Charms, one of the ones in Mr Bester’s sequence being left out this
time, which somewhat puzzled Harry.

Professor Quirrell finished his Charms—

—stood up from his chair—

—blurred into a green snake, banded in blue and white—

—hissed, “Hungry, boy? Eat your fill sswiftly, we sshall need both
sstrength and time.”

Harry’s eyes were a bit wide, but he hissed, “I ate well at breakfasst,”
and then rapidly began forking noodles into his mouth.

The snake watched him for a moment, with those flat eyes, and then
hissed, “Do not wissh to exsplain here. Prefer to be elssewhere firsst.
Need to leave unobsserved, without ssign we have ever departed room.”

“Sso no-one can track uss,” hissed Harry.

“Yess. Do you trusst me that much, boy? Think before ansswer. I will
have important requesst of you, which requiress trusst; if ssay no
regardlesss, then ssay no now.”

Harry dropped his gaze from the snake’s flat eyes, and looked back down
at his sauce-coated noodles, and ate another bite, then another, while
he thought.

The Defence Professor… was an ambiguous figure, to put it mildly; Harry
thought he had unravelled some of his goals, but others remained
mysterious.

But Professor Quirrell had knocked down two hundred girls to stop the
ones summoning Harry. Professor Quirrell had deduced that the Dementor
was draining Harry through his wand. The Defence Professor had saved
Harry’s life, twice, in a two-week period.

Which could mean that the Defence Professor was just saving Harry for
later, that there were ulterior motives. Indeed, it was certain that
there were ulterior motives. Professor Quirrell wasn’t doing this on a
whim. But then Professor Quirrell had also seen Harry taught Occlumency,
he had taught Harry how to lose… if the Defence Professor wanted to make
some use of Harry Potter, it was a use that required a strengthened
Harry Potter, not a weakened one. That was what it meant to be used by a
friend, that they would want the use to make you stronger instead of
weaker.

And if there was sometimes a cold atmosphere about the Defence
Professor, bitterness in his voice or emptiness in his gaze, then Harry
was the only one who Professor Quirrell allowed to see it.

Harry didn’t quite know how to describe in words the sense of kinship he
felt with Professor Quirrell, except to say that the Defence Professor
was the only clear-thinking person Harry had met in the wizarding world.
Sooner or later everyone else started playing Quidditch, or not putting
protective shells on their time machines, or thinking that Death was
their friend. It didn’t matter how good their intentions were. Sooner or
later, and usually sooner, they demonstrated that something deep inside
their brain was confused. Everyone except Professor Quirrell. It was a
bond that went beyond anything of debts owed, or even anything of
personal liking, that the two of them were alone in the wizarding world.
And if the Defence Professor occasionally seemed a little scary or a
little Dark, well, that was just the same thing some people said about
Harry.

“I trusst you,” hissed Harry.

And the snake explained the first stage of the plan.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry took a final forkful of noodles, chewed. Beside him, Professor
Quirrell, now in human form again, was eating his soup placidly, as
though nothing of special interest were occurring.

Then Harry swallowed, and in the same moment stood up from his chair,
already feeling his heart start to hammer hard in his chest. The
security precautions they were taking were literally the most stringent
possible…

“Are you ready to test it, Mr Potter?” Professor Quirrell said calmly.

It wasn’t a test, but Professor Quirrell wouldn’t say that, not out loud
in human speech, even in this room screened to the limit that Professor
Quirrell had secured with further Charms.

“Yep,” Harry said as casually as he could.

Step one.

Harry said “Cloak” to his pouch, drew forth the Cloak of Invisibility,
and then unstuck the pouch from his belt and threw it toward the other
side of the table.

The Defence Professor stood up from his own seat, drew his wand, bent
down, and touched his wand to the pouch, murmuring a quiet incantation.
The new enchantments would ensure that Professor Quirrell could enter
the pouch on his own in snake form, and leave it on his own, and hear
what went on outside while he was in the pouch.

Step two.

As Professor Quirrell stood up from where he’d bent over by the pouch,
and put away his wand, his wand happened to point in Harry’s direction,
and there was a brief crawling sensation on Harry’s chest near where the
Time-Turner lay, like something creepy had passed very close by without
touching him.

Step three.

The Defence Professor turned into a snake again, and the sense of doom
diminished; the snake crawled to the pouch and into it, the pouch’s
mouth opening to admit the green shape, and as the mouth closed again
behind the tail, the sense of doom diminished further.

Step four.

Harry drew his wand, being careful to stand still as he did it, so that
the Time-Turner would not move from where Professor Quirrell had
anchored the hourglass within the shell in its current orientation.
“Wingardium Leviosa,” murmured Harry, and the pouch began to float
toward him.

Slowly, slowly, as Professor Quirrell had instructed, the pouch began to
float toward Harry, who waited alert for any sign the pouch was opening,
in which case Harry was to use the Hover Charm to propel it away from
him as fast as possible.

As the pouch came within a metre of Harry, the sense of doom returned.

As Harry reattached the pouch to his belt, the sense of doom was
stronger than it had ever been, but still not overwhelming; it was
tolerable.

Even with Professor Quirrell’s Animagus form lying within the extended
space of the pouch resting on Harry’s very hip.

Step five.

Harry sheathed his wand. His other hand still held the Cloak of
Invisibility, and Harry drew that cloak over himself.

Step six.

And so in that room shielded from every possible scrying, which
Professor Quirrell had personally and further secured, it was not until
after Harry was wearing the true Cloak of Invisibility that he reached
beneath his shirt and twisted the outer shell of the Time-Turner just
once.

The Time-Turner’s inner hourglass stayed anchored and motionless, the
setting twisted around it—

The food vanished from the table, the chairs leaped back into place, the
door sprang open.

Mary’s Room was deserted, as it should have been, because Professor
Quirrell had earlier contacted Mary’s Place under a false name to
inquire whether the room would be available at this hour—not to reserve
it, not to place a cancelled reservation that might be noted, but only
to inquire.

Step seven.

Staying under the Cloak of Invisibility, Harry left through the open
door. He navigated the tiled hallways of Mary’s Place to the
well-stocked bar that greeted new entrants, tended by the owner, Jake.
There were only a few people at the bar in the late morning, and Harry
had to wait invisibly by the door for several minutes, listening to the
murmur of conversation and the gurgle of alcohol, before the door opened
to emit a huge genial Irishman, and Harry slipped out silently in his
wake.

Step eight.

Harry walked for a while. He was well away from Mary’s Place when he
turned off Diagon Alley into a smaller alley, at the end of which lay a
shop that was dark, the windows enchanted to blackness.

Step nine.

“Sword fish melon friend,” Harry spoke the passphrase to the lock, and
it clicked open.

Within the shop was also darkness, the light from the open door briefly
illuminating it to show a wide, empty room. The furniture shop which had
once operated here had gone bankrupt a few months ago, according to the
Defence Professor, and the shop had been repossessed, but not yet
resold. The walls were painted a simple white, the wooden floor
scratched and unpolished, a single closed door set in the back wall;
this had been a showroom, once, but now it showed nothing.

The door clicked shut behind Harry, and then the darkness was pitch and
complete.

Step ten.

Harry took out his wand and said “Lumos”, lighting the room with white
glow; he took his pouch from his belt (the sense of doom growing a
little sharper as he grasped it with his fingers) and lightly tossed it
to the opposite side of the room (the sense of doom fading almost
completely). And then he began to take off the Cloak of Invisibility,
even as his voice hissed, “It iss done.”

Step eleven.

From the pouch poked a green head, followed shortly by a metre-long
green body as the snake slithered out. A moment later, the snake blurred
into Professor Quirrell.

Step twelve.

Harry waited in silence while the Defence Professor recited thirty
Charms.

“All right,” Professor Quirrell said calmly, when he had finished. “If
anyone is still watching us now, we are in any case doomed, so I will
speak plainly and in human form. Parseltongue does not quite suit me, I
fear, as I am neither a descendant of Salazar nor a true snake.”

Harry nodded.

“So, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell. His gaze intent, his pale blue
eyes dark and shadowed in the white light coming from Harry’s wand. “We
are alone and unobserved, and I have an important question to ask you.”

“Go ahead,” said Harry, his heart starting to beat faster.

“What is your opinion of the government of magical Britain?”

That wasn’t quite what Harry had been expecting, but it was close
enough, so Harry said, “Based on my limited knowledge, I would say that
both the Ministry and the Wizengamot appear to be stupid, corrupt, and
evil.”

“Correct,” Professor Quirrell said. “Do you understand why I ask?”

Harry took a deep breath, and looked Professor Quirrell straight in the
eyes, unflinching. Harry had finally worked out that the way to make
amazing deductions from scanty evidence was to know the answer in
advance, and he had guessed this answer fully a week ago. It needed only
a slight adjustment…

“You are about to invite me to join a secret organization full of
interesting people like yourself,” said Harry, “one of whose goals is to
reform or overthrow the government of magical Britain, and yes, I’m in.”

There was a slight pause.

“I’m afraid that is not quite where I intended to direct this
conversation,” said Professor Quirrell. The corners of his lips were
twitching slightly. “I merely planned to ask for your help in doing
something extremely treasonous and illegal.”

Darn, thought Harry. Still, Professor Quirrell hadn’t denied it… “Go
on.”

“Before I do,” said Professor Quirrell. There was no levity in his
voice, now. “Are you open to such requests, Mr Potter? I say again that
if you are likely to say no regardless, you must say no now. If your
curiosity impels you otherwise, squash it.”

“Treasonous and illegal doesn’t bother me,” said Harry. “Risks bother me
and the stakes would need to be commensurate, but I can’t imagine you
taking risks frivolously.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “I would not. It is a terrible abuse of my
friendship with you, and of such trust as is placed in my teaching
position at Hogwarts—”

“You can skip this part,” Harry said.

The lips twitched again, and then went flat. “Then I shall skip it.
Mr Potter, you sometimes make a game of lying with truths, playing with
words to conceal your meanings in plain sight. I, too, have been known
to find that amusing. But if I so much as tell you what I hope we shall
do this day, Mr Potter, you will lie about it. You will lie straight
out, without hesitation, without wordplay or hints, to anyone who asks
about it, be they foe or closest friend. You will lie to Malfoy, to
Granger, and to McGonagall. You will speak, always and without
hesitation, in exactly the fashion you would speak if you knew nothing,
with no concern for your honour. That also is how it must be.”

There was silence, then, for a time.

That was a price measured in a fraction of Harry’s soul.

“Without telling me yet…” said Harry. “Can you say if the need is
desperate?”

“There is someone in the most terrible want of your help,” Professor
Quirrell said simply, “and there is no-one who can help them but you.”

There was another silence, but not a long one.

“All right,” Harry said quietly. “Tell me of the mission.”

The dark robes of the Defence Professor seemed to blur against the
shadow on the wall, cast by his silhouette blocking the white light of
Harry’s wand. “The ordinary Patronus Charm, Mr Potter, wards off a
Dementor’s fear. But the Dementors still see you through it, they know
that you are there. Only not your Patronus Charm. It blinds them, or
more than blinds them. What I saw beneath the cloak wasn’t even looking
in our direction as you killed it; as though it had forgotten our
existence, even as it died.”

Harry nodded. That wasn’t surprising, not when you confronted a Dementor
on the level of its true existence, beyond anthropomorphism. Death might
be the last enemy, but it wasn’t a sentient enemy. When humanity had
wiped out smallpox, smallpox hadn’t fought back.

“Mr Potter, the central branch of Gringotts is guarded by every spell
high and low that the goblins know. Even so those vaults have been
successfully robbed; for what wizardry can do, wizardry can undo. And
yet no-one has ever escaped from Azkaban. No-one. For every Charm there
is a counter-Charm, for every ward there is a bypass. How can it be that
no-one has ever been rescued from Azkaban?”

“Because Azkaban has something invincible,” Harry said. “Something so
terrible that no-one can defeat it.”

That was the keystone of their perfect security, it had to be, nothing
human. It was Death that guarded Azkaban.

“The Dementors don’t like their meals being taken away from them,”
Professor Quirrell said. Coldness had entered that voice, now. “They
know if anyone tries. There are more than a hundred Dementors there, and
they speak to the guards as well. It’s that simple, Mr Potter. If you’re
a powerful wizard then Azkaban isn’t hard to enter, and it isn’t hard to
leave. So long as you don’t try to take anything out of it that belongs
to the Dementors.”

“But the Dementors are not invincible,” said Harry. He could have cast
the Patronus Charm with that thought, in that very moment. “Never
believe that they are.”

Professor Quirrell’s voice was very quiet. “Do you remember what it was
like when you went before the Dementor, the first time, when you
failed?”

“I remember.”

And then with a sudden sickening lurch in his stomach, Harry knew where
this was going; he should have seen it before.

“There is an innocent person in Azkaban,” Professor Quirrell said.

Harry nodded, there was a burning sensation in his throat, but he didn’t
cry.

“The one of whom I speak was not under the Imperius Curse,” said the
Defence Professor, dark robes silhouetted against a greater shadow.
“There are surer ways to break wills than the Imperius, if you have the
time for torture, and Legilimency, and rituals of which I will not
speak. I cannot tell you how I know this, how I know any of this, cannot
hint at it even to you, you will have to trust me. But there is a person
in Azkaban who never once chose to serve the Dark Lord, who has spent
years suffering alone in the most terrible cold and darkness imaginable,
and never deserved a single minute of it.”

Harry saw it in a single leap of intuition, his mouth racing almost
ahead of his thoughts.

There was no hint, no warning, we all thought—

“A person by the name of Black,” Harry said.

There was silence. Silence, while the pale blue eyes stared at him.

“Well,” said Professor Quirrell after a while. “So much for not telling
you the name until after you had accepted the mission. I would ask
whether you’re reading my mind, but that’s flatly impossible.”

Harry said nothing, but it was simple enough if you believed in the
processes of modern democracy. The most obvious person in Azkaban to be
innocent was the one who hadn’t had a trial—

“I am certainly impressed, Mr Potter,” said Professor Quirrell. His face
was grave. “But this is a serious matter, and if there is some way
others could make the same deduction, I must know. So tell me,
Mr Potter. How in the name of Merlin, of Atlantis, and the void between
the stars, did you guess that I was talking about Bellatrix?”

52. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part II

THE adrenaline was already flowing in Harry’s veins, his heart already
hammering in his chest, there in that darkened and bankrupt store.
Professor Quirrell had finished explaining, and in one hand, Harry held
a tiny wooden twig that would be the key. This was it, this was the day
and the moment when Harry started acting the part. His first true
adventure, a dungeon to be pierced, an evil government to be defied, a
maiden in distress to be rescued. Harry should have been more
frightened, more reluctant, but instead he felt only that it was time
and past time to start becoming the people he had read about in his
books; to begin his journey toward what he had always known he was meant
to be, a hero. To take the first step on the road that led to Kimball
Kinnison and Captain Picard and Liono of Thundera and definitely not
Raistlin Majere. So far as Harry’s brain knew from watching early
morning cartoons, when you grew up you were supposed to gain amazing
powers and save the universe, that was what Harry’s brain had seen
adults doing and adopted as its role model for the maturation process,
and Harry very much wanted to start growing up.

And if the pattern of the story called for the hero to lose some part of
his innocence, as the result of his first adventure; then for now, at
least, in this still-innocent moment, it seemed time and past time for
him to experience that pain. Like casting off clothes too small for him;
or like finally advancing to the next stage of the game, after being
stuck for eleven years on world 3, level 2 of Super Mario Brothers.

Harry had read enough novels to suspect that he wouldn’t feel this
enthusiastic afterwards, so he was enjoying it while it lasted.

There was a popping sound as something near Harry disappeared, and then
there was no more time for heroic brooding.

Harry’s hand snapped the small wooden twig.

A hook yanked motionlessly at Harry’s abdomen as the portkey activated,
feeling like a much harder pull this time than the smaller transports
between the Hogwarts grounds and Diagon Alley—

—and dropped him into the middle of a huge roll of thunder dying away,
and a lash of cold rain whipping him across the face, the water coating
Harry’s glasses and blinding him in an instant, turning the world into a
blur even as he began to fall toward the raging ocean waves far below.

He had arrived high, high, high above the empty North Sea.

The shock of the blasting storm almost made Harry let go of the
broomstick that Professor Quirrell had given him, which would not have
been a good idea. It took nearly a full second for Harry to get his wits
together and bring his broomstick back up in an easy swoop.

“I’m here,” said an unfamiliar voice from a patch of empty air above
him; low and gravelly, the voice of the sallow lanky bearded man
Professor Quirrell had Polyjuiced into before Disillusioning himself and
his broomstick.

“I’m here,” Harry said from beneath the Cloak of Invisibility. He hadn’t
used Polyjuice himself. Wearing a different body hindered your magic,
and Harry might need all of his little magic about him; thus the plan
called for Harry to stay invisible at nearly all times, instead of
Polyjuicing.

(Neither of them had spoken the other’s name. You simply didn’t use your
names at any point during an illegal mission, even invisibly hovering
over an anonymous patch of water in the North Sea. You simply didn’t. It
would be stupid.)

Carefully keeping a grip on the broomstick with one hand, while the rain
and wind howled around him, Harry raised his wand in an equally careful
grip and Imperviused his glasses.

Then, with the lenses clear, Harry looked around.

He was surrounded by wind and rain, it might have been five degrees
Celsius if he was lucky; he’d already had a Warming Charm cast on
himself just from being outside in February, but it wasn’t standing up
to the driving cold droplets. Worse than snow, the rain soaked into
every exposed surface. The Cloak of Invisibility turned all of you
invisible, but it didn’t cover all of you, and that meant it didn’t
protect all of you from rain. Harry’s face was exposed to the full force
of the driven water, and it was driving straight into his neck and
soaking down into his shirt, also the sleeves of his robes and the cuffs
of his trousers and his shoes, the water took every bit of cloth as an
avenue to sneak in.

“This way,” said the Polyjuiced voice, and a spark of green light lit up
in front of Harry’s broomstick, and then darted away in a direction that
seemed to Harry like every other direction.

Through the blinding rain, Harry followed. He lost it sometimes, that
small green spark, and each time he did, Harry called out, and the spark
would reappear in front of him a few seconds later.

When Harry had caught the trick of following the spark, it accelerated,
and Harry kicked the broomstick into high gear and followed. The rain
whipped him harder, feeling like Harry imagined it must feel to get a
faceful of shotgun pellets, but his glasses stayed clear and protected
his eyes.

It was only a few minutes later, at the broomstick’s full speed, that
Harry caught a glimpse of a huge shadow through the rain, towering far
across the waters.

And felt a distant, hollow echo of emptiness radiating from where Death
waited, washing over Harry’s mind and parting around it, like a wave
breaking on stone. Harry knew his enemy this time, and his will was
steel and all of the light.

“I can already feel the Dementors,” said the gravelly voice of the
Polyjuiced Quirrell. “I did not expect that, not this soon.”

“Think of the stars,” Harry said, over a distant rumble of thunder.
“Don’t allow any anger in you, nothing negative, just think of the
stars, what it feels like to forget yourself and fall bodilessly through
space. Hold to that thought like an Occlumency barrier across your
entire mind. The Dementors will have some trouble reaching past that.”

There was silence for a moment, then, “Interesting.”

The green spark lifted, and Harry inclined his broomstick slightly
upward to follow, even as it steered them into a fog bank, a cloud
hovering low on the waters.

Soon they were hovering above and slightly oblique of the huge
three-sided metal building, as it loomed far below. The triangle of
steel was hollow, not solid, it was a building of three thick solid
walls and no centre. The Aurors on guard slept in the top level and
southern side of the building, Professor Quirrell had said, protected by
their Patronus Charms. The legal entrance into Azkaban was on the roof
of the south-west corner of the building. Which the two of them wouldn’t
use, of course. Instead they would use a corridor that ran directly
beneath the northern corner of the building. Professor Quirrell would go
down first, and puncture a hole in the roof and its wards right at the
northern tip, leaving behind an illusion to cover the gap.

The prisoners were kept in the side of the building, in levels
corresponding to their crimes. And at the bottom, in the uttermost
centre and depth of Azkaban, lay a nest of more than a hundred
Dementors. Loads of dirt were occasionally dropped in to keep up the
level, as the matter directly exposed to the Dementors broke down into
mud and nothingness…

“Wait one minute,” said the rough voice, “follow me at speed, and pass
through with care.”

“Got it,” Harry said quietly.

The spark winked out, and Harry began to count, one one thousand, two
one thousand, three one thousand…

…sixty one thousand, and Harry dived, the wind shrieking around him as
he dived, down toward the vast metal structure, down toward where he
could feel the shadows of Death waiting for him, draining light and
radiating emptiness, as the metal structure grew larger and larger.
Plain and featureless loomed the vast grey shape, but for a single
raised boxlike structure in the south-west corner. The north corner was
simply blank, Professor Quirrell’s hole undetectable.

Harry pulled up sharply as he approached the north corner, giving
himself more safety margin than he would have bothered with in flying
classes, but not too much. As soon as he’d come to a halt, he began to
slowly lower his broomstick again, toward what looked like the solid
roof of the tip of the north corner.

Descending through the illusory roof while invisible was a strange
experience, and then Harry found himself in a metal corridor lighted
with a dim orange light—which, Harry realized after a startled glance,
was coming from an old-fashioned mantled gas lamp…

…for magic would fail, be drained away after a time, in the presence of
Dementors.

Harry dismounted his broom.

The pull of the emptiness was stronger now, as it parted and flowed
around Harry without touching him. They were distant but they were many,
the wounds in the world; Harry could have pointed to them with his eyes
closed.

“Casst your Patronuss,” hissed a snake from the floor, looking more
discoloured than green in the dim orange light.

The note of stress came through even in Parseltongue. Harry was
surprised; Professor Quirrell had said that Animagi in their Animagus
forms were much less vulnerable to Dementors. (For the same reason that
Patronuses were animals, Harry assumed.) If Professor Quirrell was in
this much trouble in his snake form, what had been happening to him
while he was in the human form that let him use his magic…?

Harry’s wand was already rising in his hand.

This would be the beginning.

Even if it was only one person, just one person that he could save from
the darkness, even if he wasn’t powerful enough yet to teleport all of
Azkaban’s prisoners to safety and burn the triangular hell down to
bedrock…

Even so it was a start, it was a beginning, it was a down payment on
everything that Harry meant to accomplish with his life. No more
waiting, no more hoping, no more mere promising, it would all begin
here. Here and now.

Harry’s wand slashed down to point at where the Dementors waited far
below.

“Expecto Patronum!”

The glowing humanoid figure blazed up into existence. It wasn’t the
sun-bright thing that it had been before… probably because Harry hadn’t
quite been able to stop himself from thinking about all the other
prisoners in their cells, the ones that he wasn’t here to save.

It might be for the best, though. Harry would need to keep this Patronus
going for a while, and it might be better if it wasn’t quite so bright.

The Patronus dimmed a little further, at that thought; and then further
again, as Harry tried to put a little less of his strength into it,
until finally the brilliant humanoid figure was glowing only slightly
brighter than the brightest animal Patronus, and Harry felt that he
could dim it no further without risking losing it entirely.

And then, “It iss sstable,” Harry hissed, and began feeding his
broomstick into his pouch. His wand stayed in his hand, and a slight,
sustainable flow from him replaced the slight losses from his Patronus.

The snake blurred into the form of a lanky, sallow man, holding
Professor Quirrell’s wand in one hand and a broomstick in the other. The
lanky man staggered as he came back into existence, and went to lean
against the wall for a moment.

“Well done, if perhaps a trifle slow,” murmured the gravelly voice.
Professor Quirrell’s dryness was in it, even though it didn’t fit the
voice, nor did the grave look on the thickly bearded face. “I cannot
feel them at all, now.”

A moment later, the broomstick went into the man’s robes and vanished.
Then the man’s wand rose and tapped on his head, and with a sound like a
cracking eggshell he disappeared once more.

Within the air blossomed a faint green spark, and Harry, still
enshrouded in the Cloak of Invisibility, followed after.

If you had been watching from outside, you would have seen nothing but a
small green spark drifting through the air, and a brilliantly silver
humanoid walking after it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They went down, and down, and down, passing gas lamp after gas lamp, and
the occasional huge metal door, descending into Azkaban within what
seemed like utter silence. Professor Quirrell had set up some type of
barrier by which he could hear what went on nearby, but no sounds could
pass outward, and no sounds could reach Harry.

Harry hadn’t quite been able to stop his mind from wondering why the
silence, or stop his mind from giving the answer. The answer he’d
already known on some wordless level of anticipation that had prompted
him to futilely try not to think about it.

Somewhere behind those huge metal doors, people were screaming.

The silver humanoid figure wavered, brightening and dimming, every time
Harry thought about it.

Harry had been told to cast a Bubble-Head Charm on himself. To prevent
himself from smelling anything.

All the enthusiasm and heroism had worn off already, as Harry had known
it would, it hadn’t taken long even by his standards, the process had
completed itself the very first time they passed one of those metal
doors. Every metal door was locked with a huge lock, a lock of simple
non-magical metal that wouldn’t have stopped a first-year Hogwarts
student—if you still had a wand, if you still had your magic, which the
prisoners didn’t. Those metal doors were not the doors of individual
cells, Professor Quirrell had said, each one opened into a corridor in
which there would be a group of cells. Somehow that helped a little, not
thinking that each door corresponded directly to a prisoner who was
waiting right behind it. Instead there might be more than one prisoner,
which diminished the emotional impact; just like the study showing that
people contributed more when they were told that a given amount of money
was required to save one child’s life, than when told the same total
amount was needed to save eight children…

Harry was finding it increasingly hard not to think about it, and every
time he did, the light of his Patronus fluctuated.

They came to the place where the passageway turned left, at the corner
of the triangular building. Once again there were descending metal
steps, another flight of stairs; once again they went down.

Mere murderers were not put into the lowest of cells. There was always a
lower place you could go, an even worse punishment to fear. No matter
how low you had already sunk, the government of magical Britain had some
threat remaining against you if you did even worse.

But Bellatrix Black had been the Death Eater who inspired more fear than
anyone save Lord Voldemort himself, a beautiful and deadly sorceress
absolutely loyal to her master; she had been, if such a thing were
possible, more sadistic and evil even than You-Know-Who, as though she
were trying to outdo her master…

…that was what the world knew of her, what the world believed of her.

But before then, Professor Quirrell had told Harry, before the debut of
the Dark Lord’s most terrible servant, there had been a girl in
Slytherin who had been quiet, keeping mostly to herself, harming no-one.
Afterwards there had been made-up stories told about her, memories
changing in retrospect (Harry knew well the research on that). But at
the time, while she still attended school, the most talented witch in
Hogwarts had been known as a gentle girl (Professor Quirrell had said).
Her few friends had been surprised when she’d joined the Death Eaters,
and more surprised that she’d been hiding so much darkness behind that
sad, wistful smile.

That was who Bellatrix had once been, the most promising witch of her
own generation, before the Dark Lord stole her and broke her, shattered
her and reshaped her, binding her to him on a deeper level and with
darker arts than any Imperius.

Ten years Bellatrix had served the Dark Lord, killing who he bade her
kill, torturing who he bade her torture.

And then the Dark Lord had finally been defeated.

And Bellatrix’s nightmare had continued.

Somewhere inside Bellatrix there might be something that was still
screaming, that had been screaming the whole time, something a
psychiatric Healer could bring back; or there might not be, Professor
Quirrell had no way of knowing. But either way, they could…

…they could at least get her out of Azkaban…

Bellatrix Black had been put into the lowest level of Azkaban.

Harry was having trouble not imagining what he would see when they got
to her cell. Bellatrix must have had almost no fear of death, in the
beginning, if she was still alive at all.

They descended another flight of stairs, coming that much closer to
Death and Bellatrix, the clacking of their invisible shoes the only
sound that Harry could hear. Dim orange light coming from the gas
lights, the faint green spark drifting through the air, the shining
figure following with its silver light fluctuating from time to time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After descending many times, they came in time to a corridor that did
not end in stairs, and a final metal door, and the green spark halted
before it.

Harry’s heart had calmed a little, as they descended far into the depths
of Azkaban without anything happening. But now it was hammering his
chest once more. They were at the bottom, and the shadows of Death were
very close at hand.

A soft metal click came from the lock, as Professor Quirrell opened the
way.

Harry took a deep breath and remembered everything that Professor
Quirrell had told him. The hard part wouldn’t just be getting the
pretended personality right enough to fool Bellatrix Black herself, the
hard part would be keeping his Patronus going at the same time…

The green spark winked out, and a moment later a metre-high snake
shimmered into existence, no longer invisible.

The metal door moved with a slow creaking sound as Harry pushed on it
with his invisible hand, opened it just a crack, and peered through.

He saw a straight corridor that terminated in solid stone. There was no
light there but what crept in from Harry’s Patronus. That was bright
enough for him to see the outer bars of the eight cells set into the
corridor, but he couldn’t see the insides; more importantly, though, he
didn’t see anyone in the corridor itself.

“I ssee nothing,” hissed Harry.

The snake darted on ahead, swiftly twisting across the floor.

A moment later—

“Sshe iss alone,” hissed the snake.

Stay, Harry thought to his Patronus, which took up a position just to
one side of the door, as though guarding it; and then Harry pushed the
door open further, and followed within.

The first cell Harry looked at contained a dessicated corpse, skin gone
grey and mottled, flesh worn through in places to expose the bone
beneath, no eyes—

Harry shut his eyes. He could still do that, he was still invisible, he
wasn’t betraying anything by shutting his eyes.

He’d known it already, he’d read it on page six of his Transfiguration
book, that you stayed in Azkaban until your prison term was done. If you
died before it was up they kept you there until they released your
corpse. If your term was for life, they just left the body in the cell
until the cell was needed, at which point they threw your body into the
Dementors’ pit. But it was still a shock to see, that corpse had been a
person who’d just been left there—

The light in the room wavered.

Steady, thought Harry in his core. It wouldn’t be good for Professor
Quirrell if that Patronus went out from his thinking sad thoughts. This
near to the Dementors the Defence Professor might just fall dead where
he stood. Steady, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, steady!

With that thought, Harry opened his eyes again, there wasn’t time to
waste.

The second cell he looked at contained only a skeleton.

And behind the bars of the third cell he saw Bellatrix Black.

Something precious and irreplaceable inside Harry withered like dry
grass.

You could tell the woman wasn’t a skeleton, that her head wasn’t a
skull, because the texture of skin was still different from the texture
of bone, no matter how white and pale she’d become, waiting in the dark
alone. Either they weren’t feeding her much, or what she ate, the
shadows of Death drained from her; for her eyes seemed shrunken below
their lids, her lips looked too shrivelled to close over her teeth. The
colour seemed leached out of the black clothing she had worn into
prison, like the Dementors had drained that too. They’d been meant to be
daring, those clothes, and now they lay loosely over a skeleton,
exposing shrivelled skin.

I’m here to save her, I’m here to save her, I’m here to save her, Harry
thought to himself, desperately, over and over with an effort like
Occlumency, willing his Patronus not to go out, to stay and protect
Bellatrix from the Dementors—

In his heart, in his core, Harry held to all his pity and his
compassion, his will to save her from the darkness; the silver radiance
coming in through the open door brightened, even as he thought it.

And in another part of him, like he was just letting another part of his
mind carry out a habit without paying much attention to it…

A cold expression came over Harry’s face, invisibly beneath the hood.

“Hello, my dear Bella,” said a chill whisper. “Did you miss me?”

53. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part III

THE corpse of a woman opened her eyes, and the dull sunken orbs gazed
out at nothing.

“Mad,” Bellatrix muttered in a cracked voice, “It seems that little
Bella is going mad…”

Professor Quirrell had instructed Harry, calmly and precisely, how he
was to act in Bellatrix’s presence; how to form the pretence he would
maintain in his mind.

You found it expedient, or perhaps just amusing, to make Bellatrix fall
in love with you, to bind her to your service.

That love would have persisted through Azkaban, Professor Quirrell had
said, because to Bellatrix it would not be a happy thought.

She loves you utterly, completely, with her whole being. You do not
return her love, but consider her useful. She knows this.

She was the deadliest weapon you possessed, and you called her your dear
Bella.

Harry remembered it from the night the Dark Lord killed his parents: the
cold amusement, the contemptuous laughter, that high-pitched voice of
deathly hate. It didn’t seem at all difficult to guess what the Dark
Lord would say.

“I hope you are not mad, Bella dear,” said the chill whisper. “Mad is
not useful.”

Bellatrix’s eyes flickered, tried to focus on empty air.

“My… Lord… I waited for you but you did not come… I looked for you but I
could not find you… you are alive…” All her words came out in a low
mutter, if there was emotion in it, Harry could not tell.

“Sshow her your face,” hissed the snake at Harry’s feet.

Harry cast back the hood of the Cloak of Invisibility.

The part of him that Harry had placed in control of his facial
expressions looked at Bella without the slightest trace of pity, only
cool, calm interest. (While in his core, Harry thought, I will save you,
I will save you no matter what…)

“The scar…” muttered Bellatrix. “That child…”

“So they all still think,” said Harry’s voice, and gave a thin little
chuckle. “You looked for me in the wrong place, Bella dear.”

(Harry had asked why Professor Quirrell couldn’t be the one to play the
part of the Dark Lord, and Professor Quirrell had pointed out that there
was no plausible reason for him to be possessed by the shade of
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.)

Bellatrix’s eyes remained fixed on Harry, she said no word.

“Ssay ssomething in Parsseltongue,” hissed the snake.

Harry’s face turned to the snake, to make it clear that he was
addressing it, and hissed, “One two three four five ssixs sseven eight
nine ten.”

There was a pause.

“Those who do not fear the darkness…” murmured Bellatrix.

The snake hissed, “Will be conssumed by it.”

“Will be consumed by it,” whispered the chill voice. Harry didn’t
particularly want to think about how Professor Quirrell had obtained
that password. His brain, which thought about it anyway, suggested that
it had probably involved a Death Eater, a quiet isolated place, and some
lead-pipe Legilimency.

“Your wand,” murmured Bellatrix, “I took it from the Potters’ house and
hid it, my lord… under the tombstone to the right of your father’s
grave… will you kill me, now, if that was all you wished of me… I think
I must have always wanted you to be the one to kill me… but I can’t
remember now, it must have been a happy thought…”

Harry’s heart wrenched inside him, it was unbearable, and—and he
couldn’t cry, couldn’t let his Patronus fade—

Harry’s face showed a flicker of annoyance, and his voice was sharp as
it said, “Enough foolishness. You’re to come with me, Bella dear, unless
you prefer the company of the Dementors.”

Bellatrix’s face twitched in brief puzzlement, the shrunken limbs did
not stir.

“You’ll need to float her out,” Harry hissed to the snake. “Sshe can no
longer think of esscaping.”

“Yess,” hissed the snake, “but do not underesstimate her, sshe wass the
deadliesst of warriorss.” The green head dipped in warning. “One would
be wisse to fear me, boy, even were I sstarved and nine-tenthss dead; be
wary of her, allow no ssingle flaw in your pretence.”

The green snake smoothly glided out of the door.

And shortly after, a man with sallow skin and a fearful expression on
his bearded face cringed into the room with his wand in hand.

“My Lord?” the servant said falteringly.

“Do as you were instructed,” the Dark Lord whispered in that chill
voice, sounding even more terrible coming from a child’s body. “And do
not let your Patronus falter. Remember, if I do not return there will be
no reward for you, and it will be long before your family is allowed to
die.”

Having spoken those dreadful words, the Dark Lord pulled his
invisibility cloak over his head, and disappeared.

The cringing servant opened the door to Bellatrix’s cage, and pulled a
tiny needle from his robes with which he poked the human skeleton. The
single drop of red blood produced was soon absorbed into a small doll,
which was laid upon the floor, and the servant began to chant in a
whisper.

Soon another living skeleton lay upon the floor, motionless. Afterwards
the servant seemed to hesitate for a moment, until from the empty air
hissed an impatient command. Then the servant pointed his wand at
Bellatrix and spoke a word, and the living skeleton lying on the bed was
naked, and the skeleton lying on the floor was clothed in her faded
dress.

The servant tore a small strip of cloth from the dress, as it lay upon
the seeming corpse; and from his own robes, the fearful man then
produced an empty glass flask with small traces of golden fluid clinging
to its inside. This flask was concealed in a corner, the strip of skirt
laid over it, the leached cloth nearly blending with the grey metal
wall.

Another wave of the servant’s wand floated the human skeleton lying on
the bed into the air, and in almost the same motion clothed her in new
black robes. An ordinary-looking bottle of chocolate milk was put into
her hand, and a chill whisper ordered Bellatrix to grasp the bottle and
begin drinking it, which she did, her face still looking only puzzled.

Then the servant turned Bellatrix invisible, and turned himself
invisible, and they left. The door closed behind them all and clicked as
it locked, plunging the corridor into darkness once more, unchanged but
for a small flask concealed in the corner of one cell, and a fresh
corpse lying upon its floor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earlier, in the deserted shop, Professor Quirrell had told Harry that
they were going to commit the perfect crime.

Harry had unthinkingly started to repeat back the standard proverb that
there was no such thing as a perfect crime, before he actually thought
about it for two-thirds of a second, remembered a wiser proverb, and
shut his mouth in mid-sentence.

What do you think you know, and how do you think you know it?

If you did commit the perfect crime, nobody would ever find out—so how
could anyone possibly know that there weren’t perfect crimes?

And as soon as you looked at it that way, you realized that perfect
crimes probably got committed all the time, and the coroner marked it
down as death by natural causes, or the newspaper reported that the shop
had never been very profitable and had finally gone out of business…

When Bellatrix Black’s corpse was found dead in her cell the next
morning, there within the prison of Azkaban from which (everyone knew)
no-one had ever escaped, nobody bothered doing an autopsy. Nobody
thought twice about it. They just locked up the corridor and left, and
the Daily Prophet reported it in the obituary column the next day…

…that was the perfect crime which Professor Quirrell had planned.

And it wasn’t Professor Quirrell who screwed it up.

54. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part IV

A faint green spark moved forward to set the pace, and behind it
followed a brilliant silver figure, all other entities invisible. They
had traversed five legs of corridor, turned right five times and gone up
five flights of stairs; and when Bellatrix had finished her second
bottle of chocolate milk, she had been given solid bars of chocolate to
eat.

It was after her third bar of chocolate that strange noises began to
come from Bellatrix’s throat.

It took a moment for Harry to understand, to process the sounds, it
didn’t sound like anything he’d ever heard before; the rhythm of it was
shattered, almost unrecognisable, it took him that long to realize that
Bellatrix was crying.

Bellatrix Black was crying, the Dark Lord’s most terrible weapon was
crying, she was invisible but you could hear it, tiny pathetic sounds
she was trying to suppress, even now.

“It’s real?” said Bellatrix. Tonality had returned into her voice, no
longer a dead mutter, it rose up at the end to form the question. “It’s
real?”

Yes, thought the part of Harry simulating the Dark Lord, now be silent—

He couldn’t make those words pass his lips, he just couldn’t.

“I knew—you would—come to me—some day,” Bellatrix’s voice quavered and
fractured as she drew breath for quiet sobs, “I knew—you were alive—that
you would come—to me—my Lord…” there was a long inhalation like a huge
gasp, “and that even—when you came—you still wouldn’t love me—never—you
would never love me back—that was why—they couldn’t take—my love from
me—even though I can’t remember—can’t remember so many other
things—though I don’t know what I forgot—but I remember how much I love
you, Lord—”

There was a knife stabbing through Harry’s heart, he’d never heard
anything so terrible, he wanted to hunt down the Dark Lord and kill him
just for this…

“Do you still—have use for me—my Lord?”

“No,” hissed Harry’s voice, without his even thinking, it just seemed to
be operating on automatic, “I entered Azkaban on a whim. Of course I
have use for you! Don’t ask foolish questions.”

“But—I’m weak,” said Bellatrix’s voice, and a full sob escaped her, it
sounded much too loud in the corridors of Azkaban, “I can’t kill for
you, my Lord, I’m sorry, they ate it all, ate me all up, I’m too weak to
fight, what good am I to you now—”

Harry’s brain cast about desperately for some way to reassure her, from
the lips of a Dark Lord who would never speak a single word of caring.

“Ugly,” said Bellatrix. Her voice said that word like it was the final
nail in her coffin, the last despair. “I’m ugly, they ate that too, I’m,
I’m not pretty any more, you won’t even, be able, to use me, as a
reward, for your servants—even the Lestranges, won’t want, to hurt me,
any more—”

The brilliant silver figure stopped walking.

Because Harry had stopped walking.

The Dark Lord, he… The part of Harry’s self that was soft and vulnerable
was screaming in disbelieving horror, trying to reject reality, refuse
the understanding, even as a colder and harder part completed the
pattern: She obeyed him in that as she obeyed him in all things.

The green spark bobbed urgently, darted forward.

The silver humanoid stayed in place.

Bellatrix was sobbing harder.

“I’m, I’m not, I can’t be, useful, any more…”

Giant hands were squeezing Harry’s chest, wringing him like a dishcloth,
trying to crush his heart.

“Please,” whispered Bellatrix, “just kill me…” Her voice seemed to calm,
once she said that. “Please Lord, kill me, I’ve no reason to live if I’m
no use to you… I only want it to stop… please hurt me one last time, my
Lord, hurt me until I stop… I love you…”

It was the saddest thing Harry had ever heard.

The bright silver shape of Harry’s Patronus flickered—

Wavered—

Brightened—

The fury that was rising in Harry, his rage against the Dark Lord who
had done this, the rage against the Dementors, against Azkaban, against
the world that allowed such horror, it all seemed to be pouring straight
through his arm and into his wand without there being any way of
blocking it, he tried willing it to stop and nothing happened.

“My Lord!” whispered the disguised voice of Professor Quirrell. “My
spell is going out of control! Help me, my Lord!”

Brighter the Patronus, brighter and brighter, it was waxing faster than
on the day that Harry had destroyed a Dementor.

“My Lord!” the silhouette said in a terrified whisper. “Help me!
Everyone will feel it, my Lord!”

Everyone will feel it, thought Harry. His imagination could picture it
clearly, the prisoners in their cells stirring as the cold and darkness
fell away, replaced by healing light.

Every exposed surface now burned like a white sun in the reflections,
the silhouette of Bellatrix’s skeleton and the sallow man now clearly
visible in the blaze, the Disillusionment spells unable to keep pace
with the unearthly brilliance; only the Cloak of Invisibility of the
Deathly Hallows withstood it.

“My Lord! You must stop it!”

But Harry could no longer will it to stop, he no longer wanted it to
stop. He could sense it, more and more of the sparks of life in Azkaban
being sheltered by his Patronus, as it unfolded like spreading wings of
sunlight, the air turned to absolute silver as he thought it, Harry knew
what he had to do.

“Please, my Lord!”

The words went unheard.

They were far from him, the Dementors in their pit, but Harry knew that
they could be destroyed even at this distance if the light blazed bright
enough, he knew that Death itself could not face him if he stopped
holding back, so he unsealed all the gates inside him and sank the wells
of his spell into all the deepest parts of his spirit, all his mind and
all his will, and gave over absolutely everything to the spell—

And in the interior of the Sun, an only slightly dimmer shadow moved
forward, reaching out an entreating hand.

WRONG
DON’T

The sudden sense of doom clashed with Harry’s steel determination, dread
and uncertainty striving against the bright purpose, nothing else might
have reached him but that. The silhouette took another step forward and
another, the sense of doom rising to a point of terrible catastrophe;
and in the drench of cold water, Harry saw it, he realized the
consequences of what he was doing, the danger and the trap.

If you had been watching from outside you would have seen the interior
of the Sun brightening and dimming…

Brightening and dimming…

…and finally fading, fading, fading into ordinary moonlight that seemed
like pitch darkness by contrast.

Within the darkness of that moonlight stood a sallow man with his hand
outstretched in entreaty, and the skeleton of a woman, lying upon the
floor, a puzzled look upon her face.

And Harry, still invisible, fallen to his knees. The greater danger had
passed, and now Harry was just trying not to collapse, to keep the spell
going at the lower level. He’d drained something, hopefully not lost
something—he should have known, should have remembered, that it wasn’t
mere magic that fuelled the Patronus Charm—

“Thank you, my Lord,” whispered the sallow man.

“Fool,” said the hard voice of a boy pretending to be a Dark Lord. “Did
I not warn you that the spell could prove fatal if you failed to control
your emotions?”

Professor Quirrell’s eyes did not widen, of course.

“Yes, my Lord, I understand,” said the Dark Lord’s servant in a
faltering voice, and turned to Bellatrix—

She was already pushing herself off the floor, slowly, like an old, old
Muggle woman. “How funny,” Bellatrix whispered, “you were almost killed
by a Patronus Charm…” A giggle that sounded like it was blowing dust out
of her giggle pipes. “I could punish you, maybe, if my Lord froze you in
place and I had knives… maybe I can be useful after all? Oh, I feel a
little better now, how strange…”

“Be silent, dear Bella,” Harry said in a chill voice, “until I give you
leave to speak.”

There was no reply, which was obedience.

The servant levitated the human skeleton, and made her invisible once
more, followed shortly by his own disappearance with the sound of
another cracking egg.

They passed on through the corridors of Azkaban.

And Harry knew that as they passed, the prisoners were stirring in their
cells as the fear lifted for one precious moment, maybe even feeling a
small touch of healing as his light passed them by, and then collapsing
down again as the cold and darkness pressed back in.

Harry was trying very hard not to think about it.

Otherwise his Patronus would wax until it burned away every Dementor in
Azkaban, blazing bright enough to destroy them even at this distance…

Otherwise his Patronus would wax until it burned away every Dementor in
Azkaban, taking all of Harry’s life as fuel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the Auror’s quarters at the top of Azkaban, one Auror trio was
snoring in the barracks, one was resting in the break room, and one was
on duty in the command room, keeping watch. The room was simple but
large, with three chairs at the back where the Aurors sat, their wands
always in hand to sustain their three Patronuses, as the bright white
forms paced in front of the open window, sheltering them all from the
Dementors’ fear.

The three of them usually stuck to the back, and played poker, and
didn’t look out the window. You could have seen some sky there, sure,
and there was even an hour or two every day where you could’ve seen some
sun, but that window also looked down on the central pit of hell.

Just in case a Dementor wanted to float up and talk to you.

There was no way that Auror Li would have agreed to serve duty here,
triple pay or no triple pay, if he hadn’t had a family to support. (His
real name was Xiaoguang, and everyone called him Mike instead; he’d
named his children Su and Kao, which hopefully would serve them better.)
His only consolation, besides the money, was that at least his mates
played an excellent game of Dragon Poker. Though it would be hard not
to, at this point.

It was their 5,366th game and Li had what would probably be his best
hand of the 5,300s. It was a Saturday in February and there were three
players, which let him shift the suit of any one hole card except a two,
three, or seven; and that was enough to let him build a Corps-a-Corps
with Unicorns, Dragons, and sevens…

Across the table from him, Gerard McCusker looked up from the table
cards toward the direction of the window, staring.

The sinking feeling came over Li’s stomach with surprising speed.

If his seven of hearts got hit by a Dementor Modifier and turned into a
six, he was going straight down to two pair and McCusker might beat
that—

“Mike,” said McCusker, “what’s with your Patronus?”

Li turned his head and looked.

His soft silver badger had turned away from its watch over the pit and
was staring downward at something only it could see.

A moment later, Bahry’s moonlit duck and McCusker’s bright anteater
followed suit, staring in the same downward direction.

They all exchanged glances, and then sighed.

“I’ll tell them,” said Bahry. Protocol called for sending the three
Aurors who were off-duty but not sleeping to investigate anything
anomalous. “Maybe relieve one of them and take the C spiral, if you two
don’t mind.”

Li exchanged a glance with McCusker, and they both nodded. It wasn’t too
hard to break into Azkaban, if you were wealthy enough to hire a
powerful wizard, and well-intentioned enough to recruit someone who
could cast the Patronus Charm. People with friends in Azkaban would do
that, break in just to give someone a half-day’s worth of Patronus time,
a chance at some real dreams instead of nightmares. Leave them a supply
of chocolate to conceal in their cell, to increase the chance they lived
through their sentence. And the Aurors on guard… well, even if you got
caught, you could probably convince the Aurors to overlook it, in
exchange for the right bribe.

For Li, the right bribe tended to be in the range of two Knuts and a
silver Sickle. He hated this place.

But Bahry One-Hand had a wife and the wife had healer’s bills, and if
you could afford to hire someone who could break into Azkaban, then you
could afford to grease Bahry’s remaining palm pretty hard, if he was the
one who caught you.

By unspoken agreement, none of them giving anything away by being the
first to propose it, the three of them finished out their poker hand
first. Li won, since no Dementors had actually shown up. And by then the
Patronuses had stopped staring and gone back to their normal patrol, so
it was probably nothing, but procedure was procedure.

After Li raked in the pot, Bahry gave them all formal nods, and stood up
from the table. The older man’s long white locks brushed against his
fancy red robes, his robes brushed the metal floor of the command room,
as Bahry went through the separating door that led to the formerly
off-duty Aurors.

Li had been Sorted into Hufflepuff, and he sometimes felt a little
queasy about this kind of business. But Bahry had shown them all the
pictures, and you had to let a man do what he could for his poor sick
wife, especially when he only had seven months left before his
retirement.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The faint green spark floated through the metal corridors, and the
silver humanoid, seeming a little dimmer now, followed after it.
Sometimes the bright figure would flare, especially when they passed one
of the huge metal doors, but it always died back down again.

Mere eyes could not have seen the invisible others: the eleven-year-old
Boy-Who-Lived, and the living skeleton that was Bellatrix Black, and the
Polyjuiced Defence Professor of Hogwarts, all travelling together
through Azkaban. If that was the beginning of a joke, Harry didn’t know
the punchline.

They’d gone up another four flights of stairs before the rough voice of
the Defence Professor said, simply and without emphasis, “Auror coming.”

It took too long, a whole second maybe, for Harry to understand, for the
jolt of adrenaline to pump into his blood, and for him to remember what
Professor Quirrell had already discussed with him and told him to do in
this case, and then Harry spun on his heel and flew back the way they’d
come.

Harry reached the flight of stairs, and frantically laid himself down on
the third step from the top, the cold metal feeling hard even through
his cloak and robes. Trying to move his head up, to peer over the lip of
the stairs, showed that he couldn’t see Professor Quirrell; and that
meant that Harry was out of the line of any stray fire.

His shining Patronus followed after him, and lay down beside him on the
step just beneath him; for it too must not be seen.

There was a faint sound as of wind or whooshing, and then the sound of
Bellatrix’s invisible body coming to rest on a stair further below, she
had no place in this except—

“Stay still,” said the cold high whisper, “stay silent.”

There was stillness, and silence.

Harry pressed his wand against the side of the metal step just above
him. If he was anyone else he would have needed to take a Knut out of
his pocket… or rip off a bit of cloth from his robe… or bite off one of
his nails… or find a speck of rock large enough that he could see it and
solid enough to stay in one place and orientation while it touched his
wand. But with Harry’s almighty power of partial Transfiguration, this
was not necessary; he could skip that particular step of the operation
and use any material near to hand.

Thirty seconds later Harry was the proud new owner of a curved mirror,
and…

“Wingardium Leviosa,” Harry whispered as quietly as he could.

…was levitating it just above the steps, and watching, in that curved
surface, almost the whole corridor where Professor Quirrell invisibly
waited.

Harry heard it in the distance, then, the sound of footsteps.

And saw the form (a little hard to see in the mirror) of a person in red
robes, coming down the stairs, entering the seemingly empty corridor;
accompanied by a small Patronus animal that Harry couldn’t quite make
out.

The Auror was protected by a blue shimmer, it was hard to see the
details but Harry could see that much, the Auror had shields already
raised and strengthened.

Crap, thought Harry. According to the Defence Professor, the essential
art of duelling consisted of trying to put up defences that would block
whatever someone was likely to throw at you, while trying in turn to
attack in ways that were likely to go past their current set of
defences. And by far the easiest way to win any sort of real
fight—Professor Quirrell had said this over and over—was to shoot the
enemy before they raised a shield in the first place, either from behind
or from close enough range that they couldn’t dodge or counter in time.

Though Professor Quirrell might still be able to get in a shot from
behind, if—

But the Auror halted after taking three steps into the corridor.

“Nice Disillusionment,” said a hard male voice that Harry didn’t
recognize. “Now show yourself, or you’ll be in real trouble.”

The form of the sallow, bearded man became visible then.

“And you with the Patronus,” said the hard voice. “Come out too. Now.”

“Wouldn’t be smart,” said the gravelly voice of the sallow man. It was
no longer the terrified voice of the Dark Lord’s servant; it had
suddenly become the professional intimidation of a competent criminal.
“You don’t want to see who’s behind me. Trust me, you don’t. Five
hundred Galleons, cold cash up front, if you turn around and walk away.
Big trouble for your career if you don’t.”

There was a long pause.

“Look, whoever you are,” said the hard voice. “You seem confused about
how this works. I don’t care if that’s Lucius Malfoy behind you or Albus
bloody Dumbledore. You all come out, I scan the whole lot of you, and
then we talk about how much this is going to cost you—”

“Two thousand Galleons, final offer,” said the gravelly voice, taking on
a warning undertone. “That’s ten times the going rate and more than you
make in a year. And believe me, if you see something you shouldn’t,
you’re going to regret not taking that—”

“Shut it!” said the hard voice. “You’ve got exactly five seconds to drop
that wand before I drop you. Five, four—”

What are you doing, Professor Quirrell? Harry thought frantically.
Attack first! Cast a shield at least!

“—three, two, one! Stupefy!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bahry stared, a chill running down his spine.

The man’s wand had moved so fast that it was like it had Apparated into
place, and Bahry’s stunner was currently sparkling tamely at the end of
it, not blocked, not countered, not deflected, caught like a fly in
honey.

“My offer has gone back down to five hundred Galleons,” said the man in
a colder, more formal voice. He smiled dryly, and the smile looked wrong
on that bearded face. “And you shall need to accept a Memory Charm.”

Bahry had already swapped the harmonics on his shields so that his own
stunner couldn’t pass back through, already tilted his wand back into a
defensive position, already raised his hardened artificial hand into
position to block anything blockable, and was already thinking wordless
spells to put more layers on his shields—

The man wasn’t looking at Bahry. Instead he was poking curiously at
Bahry’s stunner where it still wavered on the end of his wand, drawing
out red sparks and flicking them away with his fingers, slowly
disassembling the hex like a child’s rod puzzle.

The man hadn’t raised any shields of his own.

“Tell me,” the man said in a disinterested voice that didn’t seem to
quite fit the rough throat—Polyjuice, Bahry would have called it, if
he’d thought that anyone could possibly do magic that delicate from
inside someone else’s body—“what did you do in the last war? Put
yourself in harm’s way, or stay out of trouble?”

“Harm’s way,” said Bahry. His voice kept the iron calm of an Auror with
nearly a hundred full years on the force, seven months short of
mandatory retirement, Mad-Eye Moody couldn’t have said it with any more
hardness.

“Fight any Death Eaters?”

Now a grim smile graced Bahry’s own face. “Two at once.” Two of
You-Know-Who’s own warrior-assassins, personally trained by their dark
master. Two Death Eaters at once against Bahry alone. It had been the
toughest fight of Bahry’s life, but he’d stood his ground, and walked
away with only the loss of his left hand.

“Did you kill them?” The man sounded idly curious, and he continued to
draw threads of fire out of the much-diminished stun bolt still captive
on the end of his wand, his fingers now weaving small patterns of
Bahry’s own magic before flicking to disperse them.

Sweat broke out on Bahry’s skin beneath his robes. His metal hand
flashed downward, ripped the mirror from his belt—“Bahry to Mike, I need
backup!”

There was a pause, and silence.

“Bahry to Mike!”

The mirror lay dull and lifeless in his hand. Slowly, Bahry put it back
on his belt.

“It’s been quite a while since I had a serious fight with a serious
opponent,” the man said, still not looking up at Bahry. “Try not to
disappoint me too much. You can attack whenever you’re ready. Or you can
walk away with five hundred Galleons.”

There was a long silence.

Then the air screamed like metal cutting glass as Bahry slashed his wand
downward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry could hardly see it, could hardly make out anything amid the
lights and flashes, his mirror’s curve was perfect (they’d practised
that tactic before in the Chaos Legion) but the scene was still too
small, and Harry had the feeling he wouldn’t be able to understand even
if he was watching from a metre away, it was all happening too fast, red
blasts deflecting from blue shields, green bars of light clashing
together, shadowy forms appearing and vanishing, he couldn’t even tell
who was casting what, except that the Auror was shouting incantation
after incantation and frantically dodging while Professor Quirrell’s
Polyjuiced form stood in one place and flicked his wand, mostly
silently, but now and then pronouncing words in unrecognisable languages
that would white out the whole mirror and show half the Auror’s
shielding torn away as he staggered back.

Harry had seen exhibition duels between the strongest seventh-year
students, and this was so far above it that Harry’s mind felt numbed,
looking at how far he had left to go. There wasn’t a single seventh-year
student who could have lasted half a minute against the Auror, all three
seventh-year armies put together might not be able to scratch the
Defence Professor…

The Auror had fallen to the ground, one knee and one hand supporting
himself as the other hand gestured frantically and his mouth shouted
desperate words, the few incantations that Harry recognized were all
shield spells, as a flock of shadows spun around the Auror like a
whirlwind of razors.

And Harry saw Professor Quirrell’s Polyjuiced form deliberately point
his wand at where the Auror knelt and fought the last moments of his
battle.

“Surrender,” said the gravelly voice.

The Auror spat something unspeakable.

“In that case,” said the voice, “Avada—”

Time seemed to move very slowly, like there was time to hear the
individual syllables, Ke, and Da, and Vra, time to watch the Auror
starting to throw himself desperately aside; and even though it was all
happening so slowly, somehow there wasn’t time to do anything, no time
for Harry to open his lips and scream NO, no time to move, maybe even
not any time to think.

Only time for one desperate wish that an innocent man should not die—

And a blazing silver figure stood before the Auror.

Stood there just a fraction of a second before the green light struck
home.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bahry was twisting frantically aside, not knowing if he was going to
make it—

His eyes were focused on his opponent and his onrushing death, so Bahry
only briefly saw the outline of the brilliant silhouette, the Patronus
brighter than any he’d ever seen, saw it just barely long enough to
recognize the impossible shape, before the green and the silver light
collided and both lights vanished, both lights vanished, the Killing
Curse had been blocked, and then Bahry’s ears were pierced as he saw his
terrible opponent screaming, screaming, screaming, clutching at his head
and screaming, starting to fall as Bahry was already falling—

Bahry hit the ground, falling from his own frantic lunge, and his
dislocated left shoulder and broken rib screamed in protest. Bahry
ignored the pain, managed to scramble back to his knees, brought up his
wand to stun his opponent, he didn’t understand what was happening but
he knew that this was his only chance.

“Stupefy!”

The red bolt struck out toward the man’s falling body, and was torn
apart in mid-air and dissipated—and not by any shield. Bahry could see
it, the wavering in the air that surrounded his fallen and screaming
opponent.

Bahry could feel it like a deadly pressure on his skin, the flux of
magic building and building and building toward some terrible breaking
point. His instincts screamed at him to run before the explosion came,
this was no Charm, no Curse, this was wizardry run wild, but before
Bahry could even finish getting to his feet—

The man threw his wand away from himself (he threw away his wand!) and a
second later, his form blurred and vanished entirely.

A green snake lay motionless on the ground, unmoving even before Bahry’s
next stunner spell, fired in sheer reflex, hit it without resistance.

As the dreadful flux and pressure began to dissipate, as the wild
wizardry died back down, Bahry’s dazed mind noticed that the scream was
continuing. Only it sounded different, like the scream of a young boy,
coming from the stairs leading down to the next lower level.

That scream choked off too, and then there was silence except for
Bahry’s frantic panting.

His thoughts were slow, confused, disarrayed. His opponent had been
insanely powerful, that hadn’t been a duel, it had been like his first
year as a trainee Auror trying to fight Madam Tarma. The Death Eaters
hadn’t been a tenth that good, Mad-Eye Moody wasn’t that good… and who,
what, how in the name of Merlin’s balls had anyone blocked a Killing
Curse?

Bahry managed to summon the energy to press his wand against his rib,
mutter the healing spell, and then press it again to his shoulder. It
took more out of him than it should have, took far too much out of him,
his magic was within a bare breath of utter exhaustion; he didn’t have
anything left for his minor cuts and bruises or even to reinforce the
scraps left of his shielding. It was all he could do not to let his
Patronus go out.

Bahry breathed deeply, heavily, steadied his breath as much as he could
before he spoke.

“You,” Bahry said. “Whoever you are. Come out.”

There was silence, and it occurred to Bahry that whoever it was might be
unconscious. He didn’t understand what had just happened, but he’d heard
the scream…

Well, there was one way to test that.

“Come out,” said Bahry, making his voice harder, “or I start using
area-effect curses.” He probably couldn’t have managed one if he’d
tried.

“Wait,” said a boy’s voice, a young boy’s voice, high and thin and
wavering, like someone was holding back exhaustion or tears. The voice
now seemed to be coming from closer to hand. “Please wait. I’m—coming
out—”

“Drop the invisibility,” growled Bahry. He was too tired to bother with
anti-Disillusionment Charms.

A moment later, a young boy’s face emerged from within an unfolding
invisibility cloak, and Bahry saw the black hair, the green eyes, the
glasses, and the angry red lightning-bolt scar.

If he’d had twenty fewer years of experience under his belt he might
have blinked. Instead he just spat something that he probably shouldn’t
say in front of the Boy-Who-Lived.

“He, he,” the boy’s wavering voice said, his young face looked
frightened and exhausted and tears were still trickling down his cheeks,
“he kidnapped me, to make me cast my Patronus… he said he’d kill me if I
didn’t… only I couldn’t let him just kill you…”

Bahry’s mind was still dazed, but things were slowly starting to click
into place.

Harry Potter, the only wizard ever to survive a Killing Curse. Bahry
might have been able to dodge the green death, he’d certainly been
trying, but if the matter came up before the Wizengamot, they’d rule it
was a life-debt to a Noble House.

“I see,” Bahry said in a much gentler growl. He started to walk toward
the boy. “Son, I’m sorry for what you’ve been through, but I need you to
drop the cloak and drop your wand.”

The rest of Harry Potter emerged from invisibility, showing the
sweat-soaked blue-trimmed Hogwarts robes, and his right hand clutching
an eleven-inch holly wand so hard his knuckles were white.

“Your wand,” Bahry repeated.

“Sorry,” whispered the eleven-year-old boy, “here,” and he held out the
wand toward Bahry.

Bahry barely stopped himself from snarling at the traumatized boy who’d
just saved his life. Instead he overrode the impulse with a sigh, and
just stretched out a hand to take the wand. “Look, son, you’re really
not supposed to point a wand at—”

The wand’s end twisted lightly beneath Bahry’s hand just as the boy
whispered, “Somnium.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry stared at the Auror’s crumpled body, there was no sense of
triumph, just a crushing sense of despair.

(Even then it might not have been too late.)

Harry turned to look at where the green snake lay motionless.

“Teacher?” hissed Harry. “Friend? Pleasse, are you alive?” An awful fear
was taking hold in Harry’s heart; in that moment he had entirely
forgotten that he’d just seen the Defence Professor try to kill a police
officer.

Harry pointed his wand at the snake, and his lips even began to shape
the word Innervate, before his brain caught up with him and screamed at
him.

He didn’t dare use magic on Professor Quirrell.

Harry had felt it, the burning, tearing pain in his head, like his brain
was about to split in half. He’d felt it, his magic and Professor
Quirrell’s magic, matched and anti-harmonized in a fulfilment of doom.
That was the mysterious terrible thing that would happen if Harry and
Professor Quirrell ever got too close to each other, or if they ever
cast magic on each other, or if their spells ever touched, their magic
would resonate out of control—

Harry stared at the snake, he couldn’t tell if it was breathing.

(The last seconds ticked away.)

He turned to stare at the Auror, who had seen the Boy-Who-Lived, who
knew.

The full magnitude of the disaster crushed in on Harry like a thousand
hundred-ton weights, he’d managed to stun the Auror but now there was
nothing left to do, no way to recover, the mission had failed,
everything had failed, he had failed.

Shocked, dismayed, despairing, he didn’t think of it, didn’t see the
obvious, didn’t remember where the hopeless feelings were coming from,
didn’t realize that he still needed to recast the True Patronus Charm.

(And then it was already too late.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Auror Li and Auror McCusker had rearranged their chairs around the
table, and so they both saw it at the same time, the naked, skeletally
thin horror rising up to hover outside the window, the headache already
hitting them from seeing it.

They both heard the voice, like a long-dead corpse had spoken words and
those words themselves had aged and died.

The Dementor’s speech hurt their ears as it said, “Bellatrix Black is
out of her cell.”

There was a split second of horrified silence, and then Li tore out of
his chair, heading for the communicator to call in reinforcements from
the Ministry, even as McCusker grabbed his mirror and started
frantically trying to raise the three Aurors who’d gone on patrol.

55. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part V

IN a scarred and ruined corridor, lit by dim gas lights, a boy slowly
crept forward, one hand stretched out, toward the unmoving snake that
was the body of his teacher.

Harry was only a metre away from the snake’s body when he first felt it,
tickling at the edge of his perception.

Ever so weakly, a sense of doom…

Professor Quirrell was alive, then.

The thought engendered no feeling of joy, only a sort of empty despair.

Harry would still be caught soon, and no matter how he tried to explain,
it still wouldn’t look good. No-one would trust him again, they would
think he was the next Dark Lord, they wouldn’t help him when it came
time to fight Lord Voldemort, Hermione would give up on him, probably
even Dumbledore would look for another hero…

…maybe they’d just send him home to his parents.

He had failed.

Harry looked at the crumpled body of the police officer he’d stunned,
the already-drying blood from the minor cuts and slashes, the burned
places on the intricately embroidered red robes.

He’d been stupid. He shouldn’t have stunned the police officer, should
have just stayed with his original story about being kidnapped by
Professor Quirrell…

It might not be too late, whispered a voice inside him. You might still
be able to fix your mistake. The Auror saw you, he remembers that you
stunned him… but if he were dead, if Professor Quirrell were dead, if
Bellatrix were dead, there would be no-one to contradict your story.

Slowly, Harry’s hand started to rise, pointing his wand at the police
officer and—

Harry’s hand halted.

He had a distant sense he was behaving uncharacteristically of himself,
somehow. Like there was something he’d forgotten, something important,
but he was having trouble remembering what it was, exactly.

Oh. That was right. He was someone who believed in the value of human
life.

A sense of puzzlement accompanied the thought, he couldn’t quite
remember why other people’s lives had seemed valuable…

All right, said the logical part of him, why has my mind changed between
then and now?

Because he was in Azkaban…

And he’d forgotten to recast the Patronus Charm…

Doing anything at all, somehow, seemed like a tremendous effort, like
the thought of action itself was a weight too heavy to lift; but it did
seem like a good idea to recast the Patronus Charm, for he was still
able to be afraid of Dementors. And though he couldn’t remember what it
was like to be happy, he knew that this wasn’t it.

Harry’s hand rose to hold his wand level before him, his fingers took
the starting positions.

And then Harry paused.

He couldn’t… quite remember… what he’d used as his happy thought.

That was odd, it had been something very important, he really ought to
be able to remember it… something to do with death? But that wasn’t
happy…

His body was shivering, Azkaban hadn’t seemed so cold before, and it
seemed to be getting colder even as he thought. It was too late for him,
he’d already sunk too far, he’d never be able to cast the Patronus Charm
now—

That may be the Dementation talking rather than an accurate estimate,
observed the logical part of himself, habits that had been encoded into
sheer reflex, requiring no energy to activate. Think of the Dementors’
fear as a cognitive bias, and try to overcome it the way you would
overcome any other cognitive bias. Your hopeless feelings may not
indicate that the situation is actually hopeless. It may only indicate
that you are in the presence of Dementors. All negative emotions and
pessimistic estimates must now be considered suspect, fallacious until
proven valid.

(If you’d been watching the boy as he thought, you would have seen a
distant, abstract, puzzled frown move across his face, below the glasses
and the lightning-bolt scar. His hand stayed in the starting position
for the Patronus Charm, and did not move.)

The presence of Dementors interferes with the part of you that processes
happiness. If you cannot retrieve your happy thought by mnemonic
association on the key of happiness, perhaps you can get at the memory
some other way instead. When was the last time you talked to someone
about the Patronus Charm?

Harry couldn’t seem to remember that either.

A crushing wave of despair swept over him, and was dismissed by the
logical part of himself as untrustworthy, external, not-Harry, the dull
weight still pressed him down but his mind went on thinking, it didn’t
take much effort to think…

When was the last time you talked to someone about Dementors?

Professor Quirrell had said that he was already able to feel the
presence of Dementors, and Harry had said to Professor Quirrell… he’d
told Professor Quirrell…

…to hold to the memory of the stars, of falling bodilessly through
space, like an Occlumency barrier across his entire mind.

His second Defence class of the year, on Friday, that was when Professor
Quirrell had shown him the stars, and again on Christmas.

It didn’t take much effort to remember them, the searing points of white
against perfect blackness.

Harry remembered the great cloudy wash of the Milky Way.

Harry remembered the peace.

Some of the coldness at the fringes of his limbs seemed to retreat.

There were words he had spoken out loud on the day he’d first cast the
Patronus Charm, his mind could remember the sounds and the speech even
as the feelings seemed distant…

… I thought of my absolute rejection of death as the natural order.

You cast the True Patronus Charm by thinking about the value of human
life.

…But there are other lives that are still alive to be fought for. Your
life, and my life, and Hermione Granger’s life, all the lives of Earth,
and all the lives beyond, to be defended and protected.

Then the idea of killing everyone… that hadn’t been his true self, that
had been the Dementation talking…

Despair was the Dementors’ influence.

Where there’s life, there’s hope. The Auror is still alive. Professor
Quirrell is still alive. Bellatrix is still alive. I’m still alive.
No-one’s actually died yet…

Harry could picture the Earth, now, in the midst of the star-field, the
blue-white orb.

…and I won’t let them!

“Expecto Patronum!”

The words came out a little halting, and when the human shape burst back
into existence it was dim at first, moonlight instead of sunlight, white
instead of silver.

But it strengthened, slowly, as Harry breathed in deliberate rhythm,
recovering. Letting the light drive back the darkness from his mind.
Remembering the things that he had almost forgotten, and channelling
them back into the Patronus Charm.

Even when the light blazed full and silver once more, illuminating the
corridor more brightly than the gas lamps, banishing fully the cold,
Harry’s limbs still shook. That had been too close.

Harry took a deep breath. All right. It was time to reconsider the
situation now that his thoughts were no longer being artificially
darkened by Dementors.

Harry reviewed the situation.

…still looked pretty hopeless, actually.

It wasn’t the crushing despair of before, but Harry still felt wobbly,
to put it mildly. He didn’t dare go dark and it was his dark side that
had the ability to take this level of problem in stride. It was his dark
side that would have laughed scornfully at the very concept of giving up
just because he’d lost Professor Quirrell and was marooned in the depths
of Azkaban and had been seen by a police officer. The ordinary Harry was
not able to take that sort of thing in stride.

But there wasn’t any option except to keep moving forward anyway. You
couldn’t get any more pointless than giving up before you’d actually
lost.

Harry looked around.

Dim gas lights lit a corridor of grey metal, whose sides and floor and
ceiling were slashed in places, gouged and melted, telling anyone who
cared to look that there had been battle here.

Professor Quirrell could have repaired it easily enough, if he’d…

The sense of betrayal struck Harry with full force, then.

Why… why did he… why…

Because he’s evil, said Gryffindor and Hufflepuff, quietly and sadly. We
told you so.

No! thought Harry desperately. No, it doesn’t make sense, we were going
to commit the perfect crime, the Auror could have been Obliviated, the
corridor repaired, it wasn’t too late but it would have been too late if
he’d died!

But Professor Quirrell was never really planning to commit the perfect
crime, said the grim voice of Slytherin. He wanted the crime to be
noticed. He wanted everyone to know that someone had killed an Auror and
broken Bellatrix Black out of Azkaban. He would have prepared some kind
of evidence, some proof he could reveal of your involvement, to use as
blackmail against you; and you would have been bound to him forever.

Harry’s Patronus almost went out, then.

No… Harry thought.

Yes, said the other three parts of him sadly.

No. It still doesn’t make sense. Professor Quirrell had to know I would
turn against him the instant I saw him kill an Auror. That I might very
well go ahead and confess to Dumbledore, hoping to plead the true fact
that I was tricked. And… in terms of blackmail, does his killing an
Auror against my will, really add all that much to breaking Bellatrix
out of Azkaban with my willing help? It would have been more cunning to
keep the evidence of my involvement with the basic crime, but still
pretend to be my ally for as long as he could, saving the blackmail to
use only if it became necessary…

Rationalization, said Slytherin. So why did Professor Quirrell do it,
then?

And Harry thought with a tinge of desperation—knowing, even as he
thought it, that he was motivated in part by a desire to reject reality,
and that wasn’t how the technique was meant to be wielded—I notice that
I am confused.

There was internal silence. None of the parts of himself seemed to have
anything to add to that.

And Harry continued to take stock of the moderately hopeless-looking
situation.

Did Harry need to re-evaluate the probability that Bellatrix was evil?

…not in any mission-relevant sense. It was a given that Bellatrix was
currently evil. Whether she was an innocent who’d been made that way by
torture and Legilimency and unspeakable rituals, or whether she’d chosen
it of her own will, didn’t have much bearing on the current situation.
The key fact was that while Bellatrix thought Harry was the Dark Lord,
she would obey him.

That was one resource, then. But Bellatrix was starved and nine-tenths
dead…

‘Oh, I feel a little better now, how strange…’

Bellatrix had said that, in her shattered voice, after Harry’s Patronus
had blazed out of control.

Harry thought, and he couldn’t have quite said why he thought this, it
might have just been his own mind making things up, but… it seemed
likely that what the Dementors had taken from you long ago was lost
forever. But what the Dementors had taken from you recently, the True
Patronus Charm might give back. Like the difference between emptying a
cup, and the unused cup fading away. Bellatrix, then, might have got
back what she’d lost in just the last week or so. Not any happy
memories, those would have been eaten years ago. But whatever strength
and magic had been drained from her in just the last week, she might
have regained. Like the equivalent of getting a week of rest, a week to
build up her magic again…

Harry looked at Professor Quirrell’s snake form.

…maybe enough for an Innervate.

If awakening Professor Quirrell was, in fact, a smart thing to do.

Some of the despair came back to Harry, then. He couldn’t trust
Professor Quirrell, couldn’t trust that reviving him would be wise, not
after what had just happened.

Steady, Harry thought to himself, and looked at the crumpled form of the
Auror.

Bellatrix might also be able to manage a Memory Charm.

That could be step one, anyway. It wasn’t exactly getting everyone
safely out of Azkaban, and the Aurors would know afterwards that
something strange had happened, they might suspect Bellatrix’s body and
perform an autopsy. But it was a step.

…and would it be all that hard to get out of Azkaban? If they could get
to the top of Azkaban quickly enough, before the Auror was supposed to
report back in, before anyone noticed him missing, then they could just
fly out through the hole Professor Quirrell had made, and get far enough
away from Azkaban to activate the portkey Harry already had in his
possession. (Both Professor Quirrell and Harry had portkeys, and both
were powerful enough to transport two humans, plus or minus a snake. As
with their doubly-concealed departure from Mary’s Room, Professor
Quirrell had put enough safety margin in his plans to impress even
Harry.)

Bellatrix could carry Professor Quirrell’s snake form, which Harry dared
not touch or levitate.

Harry turned and strode quickly toward where Bellatrix was waiting on
the stairs. He could feel his spirits reviving a little. It was starting
to look like a good plan, and there was no time to waste in going about
it.

What to do with Professor Quirrell, or for that matter Bellatrix, after
the portkey took them to where they were supposed to hand Bellatrix over
to the psychiatric healer… well, Harry could work that out along the
way. Harry would probably have to bamboozle the healer into doing
something—which was going to take one hell of a bamboozling, and Harry
wasn’t even sure what he wanted done—but he and Bellatrix had to get
moving now.

The main problem Harry saw, as he quickly ran the whole process forward
in his imagination, would come when they reached the roof. Professor
Quirrell had been supposed to sneak around invisibly and Confund the
monitors that would notice visitors in the ærial surroundings of
Azkaban, causing them to see a repeating loop of scenery for a few
minutes. Professor Quirrell had said that he couldn’t Disillusion
Harry’s Patronus; and if they switched off the Patronus, the Dementors
would notice Bellatrix was missing, and alert the Aurors…

Harry’s train of thought stumbled.

There were times when ‘Aw, crap’ just didn’t seem to cover it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Li’s hands were sure despite the adrenaline, as he unlocked the bars on
the Vanishing Cabinet that linked Azkaban to a well-guarded room in the
interior of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. (A one-way
Vanishing Cabinet, of course. The wards permitted a few fast ways into
Azkaban, all of them highly restricted, and no fast ways out.)

Li stepped well back, pointed his wand at the Cabinet, spoke the
incantation “Harmonia Nectere Passus”, and not a second later—

The door of the Cabinet burst open with a bang, and into the room strode
a heavy-set, square-jawed witch with greyed hair cropped close around
her head. She wore no rank signs as she wore no jewellery or other
ornamentation, it was only an ordinary Auror’s robes that she deemed fit
to grace herself: Director Amelia Bones, head of the Department of
Magical Law Enforcement and said to be the only witch in the DMLE who
could take Mad-Eye Moody in a fair fight (not that either of those two
were the sort to fight fairly). Li had heard rumours that Amelia could
Apparate within the bounds of the DMLE, and this was the sort of thing
that gave rise to rumours like that, he’d called in the alarm not fifty
seconds ago.

“Get into the air, now!” Amelia barked over her shoulder at the female
Auror trio following behind her with police broomsticks, they must have
all been crushed in there, waiting for Li to activate the Cabinet. “I
want more ærial coverage on this place! And make sure you keep up your
anti-Disillusionment Charms!” Then her head turned toward him. “Report,
Auror Li! Do we know how they got in yet?”

Another Auror trio holding broomsticks materialized in the Vanishing
Cabinet and strode out after them even as Li began talking.

They were followed by a trio of Hit Wizards in full battle gear.

Then another trio of Hit Wizards.

Then another broomstick team.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The emaciated form that was Bellatrix Black was resting motionless on
the stairs when Harry got there, eyes closed, and when Harry asked in a
cold, high whisper whether she was awake, he got no response.

A brief twitch of panic was countered by the thought that Professor
Quirrell had knocked her out to prevent her from hearing the Dark Lord’s
cringing servant suddenly turn into a hardened criminal and then an
expert battle-mage. Which was good, because she wouldn’t have heard
Harry’s voice saying ‘Expecto Patronum’.

Harry drew back the hood of the Cloak, pointed his wand at Bellatrix,
and whispered as gently as he could, “Innervate.”

From the way Bellatrix’s body jerked a little, Harry didn’t think he’d
managed to get it quite gentle enough.

The sunken dark eyes opened.

“Bella dear,” Harry said in his cold, high voice, “I am afraid we’ve run
into a bit of a problem. Have you recovered enough to do small magics?”

There was a pause, and then Bellatrix’s pale head nodded.

“Very good,” Harry said dryly. “I won’t ask you to walk unaided, Bella
dear, but I am afraid you must walk.” He pointed his wand at her.
“Wingardium Leviosa.”

Harry kept the flow of force down to something he could sustain for a
while, and it was still probably lifting two-thirds of her current body
weight. She was… thin.

Slowly, as though for the first time in years, Bellatrix Black pushed
herself to her feet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Amelia strode into the duty room, Auror Li and his silver badger
following behind her. She’d spun her Time-Turner the moment she’d heard
the alarm, and then spent a tense hour preparing her forces for entry.
You couldn’t loop time within Azkaban itself, Azkaban’s future couldn’t
interact with its past, so she hadn’t been able to arrive before the
DMLE had got the message, but she should have arrived in time…

Her eyes went straight to the corpse, uncloaked and looking very dead,
floating beyond the viewing window.

“Where is Bellatrix Black?” Amelia demanded, showing no fear before the
creature of fear.

Even her own blood froze for an instant, as the corpse parted its lips,
and gurgled, “Do not know.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry watched, now fully invisible once more, as Bellatrix slowly leaned
down, took Professor Quirrell’s wand (which Harry dared not touch), and
slowly straightened again.

Then Bellatrix pointed the wand at the snake, and said, her voice
precise though it was still a whisper, “Innervate.”

The snake did not stir.

“Shall I try again, my Lord?” she whispered.

“No,” Harry said. He swallowed the sick feeling. Harry had decided to
say the hell with it and try to revive Professor Quirrell after he’d
realized that the Dementors had probably alerted the Aurors by now. His
high, cold voice went on, unperturbed, “Do you think you are able to
perform a Memory Charm, dear Bella?”

Bellatrix paused, and then said, hesitantly, “I think so, my Lord.”

“Eliminate that Auror’s last half-hour of memory,” Harry commanded. He’d
thought a bit about whether he wanted to provide any justification for
that, what he would say if Bellatrix asked why they weren’t just killing
him, in which case Harry would explain that they were pretending to be a
different power group and then tell her to shut up—

But Bellatrix simply pointed her wand at the Auror, stood silently for a
time, and finally whispered, “Obliviate.”

She swayed, then, but did not fall.

“Very good, my dear Bella,” Harry said, and chuckled thinly. “And I will
ask you to carry that snake.”

Again, the woman said nothing, demanded no explanations, didn’t ask why
Harry or the apparently-invisible Patronus caster couldn’t do it. She
only staggered to where the long snake lay, slowly bent over, picked it
up, draped it over her shoulder.

(A tiny little part of Harry observed that it was very relaxing to have
a minion that would just follow orders so unquestioningly, and even got
as far as thinking that he could totally get used to having a minion
like Bellatrix, before that mind-fraction was screamed into silence by
his mortally offended remainder.)

“Follow,” the boy commanded his minion, and began to walk.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was starting to get crowded in the duty room, almost too crowded to
breathe, though there was still space around Amelia herself; if needing
to breathe meant that you had to crowd Director Bones, it was better not
to breathe.

Amelia looked at where Ora was fiddling with Auror McCusker’s mirror.
“Specialist Weinbach,” she barked, causing the young witch to start.
“Any response from One-Hand’s mirror?”

“None,” Ora said nervously, “it’s… I mean it has to be jammed, not dead,
carefully jammed because it didn’t set off the alarms, but the line is
so blank the mirror might as well be broken…”

Amelia didn’t let her expression change, though the part of her that was
already mourning One-Hand got a little sadder and a lot more angry.
Seven months, he’d had seven months left until his retirement after a
full century of service. She remembered him as an eager young Auror, so
very long ago, and his whole career he’d served the DMLE with perfect
loyalty, at least when it came to anything really important…

Someone would burn for this.

The Dementor still hovered outside the window, casting its useless
shadow of dread over their operations; all the creature could do was
gurgle its lack of knowledge or fail to reply at all, when asked
questions like ‘Did Bellatrix Black escape?’ and ‘Why can’t you find
her?’ and ‘How is she being hidden?’ Amelia was starting to worry that
the criminals were already gone, when—

“We found a hole in the roof over C spiral!” someone shouted from the
doorway. “Still open, ward circumventions still active!”

Amelia’s lips peeled back in a smile like a wolf opening its jaws to
eat.

Bellatrix Black was still in Azkaban.

And in Azkaban, Bellatrix Black would remain forever.

She took a stride toward the window, ignoring the Dementor now, and
looked up at the sky above, to check with her own eyes the patrolling
broomsticks. She couldn’t see the whole sky from here, but she saw ten
brooms go past on a patrol pattern and that already ought to be enough
to catch anyone, though she fully meant to put every broom she could in
the air. Her Aurors were equipped with the fastest racing broom
currently on the market, the Nimbus 2000; no unsuccessful chases for her
people.

Amelia turned back from the window, and frowned. The room was getting
ridiculously crowded, and two-thirds of these people didn’t need to be
here, they just wanted to be close to the centre of the action. If there
was one thing Amelia couldn’t tolerate, it was people who did what they
wanted instead of what was needed.

“All right, you lot!” Amelia bellowed at them. “Stop hanging around here
and start securing the top level of each spiral! That’s right,” she said
to the looks of surprise, “all three! They could tunnel through a floor
or a ceiling to go between them, in case you hadn’t worked that out!
We’re going down level by level until we catch them! I’ll take C spiral,
Scrimgeour, you’re on B…” She paused, then, remembering that Mad-Eye had
retired last year, who could she… “Shacklebolt, you’re on the A spiral,
take the strongest other fighters with you! Check every set of cells you
pass, look under blankets, do the full set of detection Charms in every
corridor! Nobody leaves Azkaban until the criminals are caught, nobody!
And…” People looked at Amelia in surprise as her voice trailed off.

The criminals had invented some way to prevent the Dementors from
finding Bellatrix Black.

That ought to have been impossible.

It chilled her blood, contemplating that. It was like…

Amelia took a deep breath, and spoke once more, in a voice of steel
command. “And when you catch them, make bloody sure they’re the real
criminals and not our own people forced to take Polyjuice. Anyone
behaves oddly, check them for the Imperius Curse. Keep each other in
sight at all times. Don’t assume an Auror uniform is friendly if you
don’t recognize the face.” She turned to the communications specialist.
“Tell the broomsticks. If one of the brooms peels off for no reason,
half of them are to hunt it down while the rest keep patrolling. And
change the harmonics on everything changeable, they may have stolen our
keys.” Then back to the rest of the room. “No Auror is above suspicion
unless they have no family left to threaten.”

She saw it, the cold looks that came over the older faces, saw some of
the younger Aurors flinch, and knew that they understood.

But she said it out loud, just to be sure.

“We’re fighting the old Wizarding War today, everyone. Just because
You-Know-Who is dead doesn’t mean the Death Eaters have forgotten his
tricks. Now go!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry walked in silence through the gas-lit grey corridor, invisible
beside Bellatrix and the silver shape following them, trying to think of
a better plan.

At first, when he’d realized that the Aurors probably knew already, and
that moreover, Professor Quirrell wasn’t waking up…

His thoughts had frozen up there, for a second.

And then stayed frozen, even as he’d started heading downward with
Bellatrix, to buy as much time as possible; the Aurors, Harry figured,
would start at the top and move down level by level. The Aurors could
afford to move slowly and securely; they knew their prey had no way out.

Harry hadn’t been able to think of any way out.

Until Harry had said to himself, well, if it was just a war game, what
would General Chaos do?

From which an answer had followed instantly.

And then Harry had thought, but if it’s that easy, why hasn’t anyone
broken out of Azkaban before?

And after he’d realized the possible problem: Fine, what would General
Chaos do about that?

Whereupon General Chaos had come up with an amendment to his first plan.

It was…

It was the most insanely Gryffindor thing Harry had ever…

So now he was trying to think of a better plan, and not having much
luck.

Picky picky picky, said Gryffindor. Who was complaining about not having
any plan one minute earlier? You should be glad we came up with anything
at all, Mister Now-We’re-Doomed.

“My Lord,” Bellatrix whispered haltingly, as she navigated the next
flight of stairs downward, “am I going back to my cell, my Lord?”

Harry’s brain was distracted, so it took him that long to process the
words, and then another moment to process the horror, while Bellatrix
continued speaking.

“I would… please, my Lord, I would very much rather die,” her voice
said. And then, in a smaller voice, a whisper that was barely there,
“but I will go back if you ask it of me, my Lord…”

“We are not going back to your cell,” hissed Harry’s voice, on
automatic. Nothing of what he felt was allowed to reach his face.

Um… said Hufflepuff. Did you seriously just think, ‘You ought to work
for me, I would appreciate you?’

A stone would respond to that kind of loyalty, Harry thought. Even if
I’m only getting it by mistake, I can’t help but—

She’s the Dark Lord’s loyal killer and torturer, and the supposed reason
she’s loyal is because an innocent girl was broken into pieces and used
as raw material to make her, said Hufflepuff. Did you forget?

If someone shows me that much loyalty, even by mistake, there’s a part
of me that can’t help but feel something. The Dark Lord must have been…
evil doesn’t seem like a strong enough word, he must have been empty…to
not appreciate her loyalty, artificial or not.

The better parts of Harry didn’t have much to say to that.

And that was when Harry heard it.

It was faint, and it grew louder with every step they took forward.

A woman’s voice, distant, indistinct.

His ears, automatically, strained to make out the words.

“…please don’t…”

“…didn’t mean…”

“…don’t die…”

Then his brain knew who he was hearing, and in almost the same moment,
figured out what he was hearing.

Because Professor Quirrell wasn’t there to keep the silence any more,
and Azkaban was not, in fact, silent.

Faint the woman’s voice, repeating:

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

It got louder with every step Harry took, he could hear the emotion in
the words now, the horror, the remorse, the desperation of…

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

…the woman’s worst memory, rehearsing over and over again…

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

…the murder that had sent her to Azkaban…

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

…where she was sentenced by the Dementors to watch whoever she’d killed,
die and die and die in an infinite repeating loop. Though she must have
been put in Azkaban recently, from the amount of life left in her voice.

The thought came to Harry, then, that Professor Quirrell had passed
those doors, heard those sounds, and given not the slightest sign of
disturbance; and Harry would have called it a positive proof of evil, if
Harry’s own lips hadn’t remained silent in the presence of Bellatrix,
his breathing regular, while something inside him screamed and screamed
and screamed.

The Patronus brightened, not out of control, but it brightened, with
every step Harry took forward.

It brightened further as Harry and Bellatrix descended the stairs, she
stumbled and Harry offered her his left arm thrust outside the Cloak,
braving the sense of doom from being that close to the snake draped
around her neck. There was a surprised look on her face, but she
accepted it, and said nothing.

It helped Harry, being able to help Bellatrix, but it wasn’t enough.

Not when he saw the huge metal door in the centre of that level’s
corridor.

Not when they came closer, and the woman’s voice fell silent, because
there was a Patronus near her now, and she wasn’t reliving her worst
memory any more.

Good, said a voice inside him. That was step one.

Harry’s steps carried him inevitably forward toward the metal door.

And…

Now unlock the door—

…Harry kept walking…

What do you think you’re doing? Go back and get her out of there!

…kept walking…

Save her! What are you doing? She’s hurting YOU HAVE TO SAVE HER!

The portkey Harry was carrying could transport two humans, only two,
plus or minus a snake. If they’d had Professor Quirrell’s portkey too…
but they didn’t, Professor Quirrell’s human form was carrying that,
there was no way to get it… Harry could only save one person today, and
there was only one person on the lowest level of Azkaban, in the most
desperate need…

“DON’T GO!” The voice came in a scream from behind the metal door. “No,
no, no, don’t go, don’t take it away, don’t don’t don’t—”

There was a light in the corridor and it grew brighter.

“Please,” sobbed the woman’s voice, “please, I can’t remember my
children’s names any more—”

“Sit down, Bella,” Harry’s voice said, somehow he kept his voice in a
cold whisper, “I must deal with this,” the Hover Charm diminishing and
switching off even as Bella obediently sat down, her skeletal form dark
against the brightening air.

I’ll die, thought Harry.

The air went on brightening.

After all, it wasn’t a certainty that Harry would die.

It was just a probability of death, and weren’t some things worth a
probability of dying?

The air went on brightening, the greater Patronus was beginning to form
around him, the brilliant human shape was becoming indistinct within the
burning air, as Harry’s life went to feed the fire.

If I wipe out the Dementors, then even if I live, they’ll know it was
me, that I was the one who did this… I’ll lose my support, lose the war…

Yeah? said the inner voice that was urging him on. After you destroy all
the Dementors in Azkaban? I’d think that’d tend to prove your
credentials as a Light Lord, actually, so SAVE HER SAVE HER YOU HAVE TO
SAVE HER—

The humanoid shape could no longer be seen as a separate entity.

The corridor couldn’t be seen.

Harry’s own body was invisible within the Cloak.

There was only a bodiless viewpoint within an infinite expanse of silver
light.

Harry could feel the life leaving him, fuelling the spell; far away, he
could feel the shadows of Death begin to fray.

I meant to accomplish more with my life than this… I was going to fight
the Dark Lord, I was going to merge the wizarding and Muggle worlds…

Lofty goals seemed very distant, very abstract, compared to one woman
begging him for help, it wasn’t certain that Harry would ever do
anything more important than this one thing, this one thing that he
could do now and here.

And with what might have been his last breath, Harry thought:

There are other Dementors, probably other Azkabans… if I’m going to do
this, I should do it when I’m closer to the central pit, it will take
less of my life that way, which increases the probability that I’ll
survive to destroy other Dementors… even assuming this is the optimal
thing to do, if there’s a right time and place to do this, it isn’t now
and here, IT ISN’T NOW AND HERE!

What? said the other part of him indignantly, as it searched for a
counterargument that didn’t exist—

Slowly the light died back down, as Harry concentrated on that one
indisputable fact, the one obvious truth that they weren’t in the
optimal place, the time couldn’t be now…

Slowly the light died back down.

Part of Harry’s life flowed back into him.

Part had been lost as radiation.

But Harry had enough left to stay on his feet, and keep the silver human
shape bright; and when his wand arm raised and his voice whispered
“Wingardium Leviosa”, the magic flowed obediently out of him and helped
Bellatrix to her feet. (For it wasn’t his magic he had expended, it had
never been his magic that fuelled the Patronus Charm.)

I swear, Harry thought, breathing as regularly as he could in
Bellatrix’s presence, while tears streamed down his invisible cheeks, I
swear upon my life and my magic and my art as a rationalist, I swear by
everything I hold sacred and all my happy memories, I give my oath that
some day I will end this place, please, please may I be forgiven…

And the two of them walked on, as a murderess’s voice screamed and
begged someone to come back and save her.

There should have been more time, there should have been a ceremony, for
Harry’s sacrifice of that piece of himself, but Bellatrix was beside him
and so Harry just had to keep on walking without a pause, saying
nothing, breathing evenly.

So Harry walked on, leaving a piece of himself behind. It would dwell in
this place and time forever, he knew. Even after Harry came back some
day with a company of other True Patronus casters and they destroyed all
the Dementors here. Even if he melted the triangular building and burned
the island low enough that the sea would wash over it, leaving no trace
that such a place as this had ever once existed. Even then he wouldn’t
get it back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The flock of luminous creatures stopped staring downward, and began
patrolling the metal corridor as if nothing had happened.

“Just like last time?” Director Bones snapped in the direction of Auror
Li, and the young Auror replied, “Yes, ma’am.”

The Director fired off another query to see if the Dementors could now
find their target, and looked unsurprised to hear a negative reply a few
seconds later.

Emmeline Vance was feeling torn between her loyalties.

Emmeline wasn’t a member of the Order of the Phœnix any more, they had
disbanded after the end of the last war. And during the war, she’d
known, they’d all known, that Director Crouch had quietly approved of
their off-the-books battle.

Director Bones wasn’t Crouch.

But they were hunting Bellatrix Black now, who had been a Death Eater,
and who was certainly being rescued by Death Eaters. Their Patronuses
were behaving oddly—all the bright creatures stopping and staring off
downward, before they’d gone back to following their masters. And the
Dementors couldn’t find their target.

It seemed to her that this would be an extremely good time to consult
Albus Dumbledore.

Should she just suggest to Director Bones that they contact Dumbledore?
But if Director Bones hadn’t contacted him already…

Emmeline wavered for a while, probably too long, and then finally
decided. The hell with it, she thought. We’re all on the same side, we
need to stick together whether Director Bones likes it or not.

At a thought, her silver sparrow fluttered onto her shoulder.

“Drop behind us to guard our rear,” Emmeline murmured softly, almost
without moving her lips, “wait until no-one is looking directly at you,
then go to Albus Dumbledore. If he is not already by himself, wait until
he is. And tell him this: Bellatrix Black is breaking out of Azkaban,
and the Dementors cannot find her.”

56. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part VI:Constrained Optimization

SILENT, it was thankfully silent, the metal door on the next level down.
Either there wasn’t someone behind there, or they were hurting quietly,
maybe they were screaming but their voice had given out already, or they
were just muttering quietly to themselves in the dark…

I’m not sure I can do this, Harry thought, and he couldn’t blame the
despairing thought on the Dementors either. It would be better to be
lower, safer to be lower, his plan would take time to implement and the
Aurors were probably already working their way down. But if Harry had to
pass any more of those metal doors while staying silent and keeping his
breathing perfectly regular, he might go mad; if he had to leave a piece
of himself behind at each one, soon there wouldn’t be anything left of
him—

A luminous moonlit cat leaped into existence and landed in front of
Harry’s Patronus. Harry almost screamed, which wouldn’t have helped his
image with Bellatrix.

“Harry!” said the voice of Professor McGonagall, sounding as alarmed as
Harry had ever heard from her. “Where are you? Are you all right? This
is my Patronus, answer me!”

With a convulsive effort, Harry cleared his mind, repurposed his throat,
forced calm, swapped in a different personality like an Occlumency
barrier. It took a few seconds and he hoped like hell that Professor
McGonagall didn’t notice a problem with that thanks to the
communications delay, just as he hoped like hell that Patronuses didn’t
report on their surroundings.

A young boy’s innocent voice said, “I’m in Mary’s Place, Professor, in
Diagon Alley. Going to the restroom actually. What’s wrong?”

The cat leaped away, and Bellatrix began to chuckle softly, dusty
appreciative laughter, but she cut herself off abruptly at a hiss from
Harry.

A moment later the cat returned, and said in Professor McGonagall’s
voice, “I’m coming to pick you up right now. Don’t go anywhere, if
you’re not around the Defence Professor don’t go back to him, don’t say
anything to anyone, I’ll be there as quickly as I can!”

And the bright cat blurred forward and vanished.

Harry glanced down at his watch, noting down the time, so that after he
got everyone out of here, and Professor Quirrell anchored the
Time-Turner again, he could go back and be in the restroom of Mary’s
Place at the appropriate time…

You know, said the problem-solving part of his brain, there’s a limit to
how many constraints you can add to a problem before it really is
impossible, you know that?

It shouldn’t have mattered, and it didn’t really, it didn’t compare to
the suffering of a single prisoner in Azkaban, and yet Harry still found
himself feeling very aware that if his plan didn’t end with him being
picked up from Mary’s Place just like he’d never left, and the Defence
Professor looking completely innocent of any and all wrongdoing,
Professor McGonagall was going to kill him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As their team prepared to eat another bite of territory out of C spiral,
shielding and scanning before dispelling the previous shield to their
rear, Amelia was tapping her fingers on her hip and wondering if she
ought to consult the obvious expert. If only he wasn’t so—

Amelia heard the familiar crack of fire and knew what she would see as
she turned.

A third of her Aurors were spinning around and levelling their wands on
the old wizard in half-moon glasses and a long silver beard who had
appeared directly within their midst, a bright red-golden phœnix on his
shoulder.

“Hold your fire!” Polyjuice made it easy to forge the face, but faking
the phœnix travel would have been rather more difficult—the wards
permitted it as one of the fast ways into Azkaban, though there were no
fast ways out.

The old witch and the old wizard stared at each other for a long moment.

(Amelia wondered, in the back of her mind, which of her Aurors had sent
the word, there were several former members of the Order of the Phœnix
with her; she tried to remember, in the back of her mind, if she’d seen
Emmeline’s sparrow or Andy’s cat missing from the flock of bright
creatures; but she knew that it was futile. It might not even be any of
her people, for the old meddler often knew things he had no way at all
of knowing.)

Albus Dumbledore inclined his head to Amelia in a courteous gesture. “I
hope I am not unwelcome here,” the wizard said calmly. “We are all on
the same side, are we not?”

“That depends,” Amelia said in a hard voice. “Are you here to help us
catch criminals, or to protect them from the consequences of their
actions?” Are you going to try to stop the killer of my brother from
getting her well-deserved Kiss, old meddler? From what Amelia heard,
Dumbledore had become smarter toward the end of the war, mostly due to
Mad-Eye’s non-stop nagging; but had relapsed into his foolish mercies
the instant Voldemort’s body was found.

A dozen small points of white and silver, reflections of the shining
animals, gleamed off the old wizard’s half-moon glasses as he spoke.
“Even less than you would I see Bellatrix Black freed,” the old wizard
said. “She must not leave this prison alive, Amelia.”

Before Amelia could speak again, even to express her surprised
gratification, the old wizard gestured with his long black wand and a
blazing silver phœnix sprang into existence, brighter perhaps than all
their other Patronuses put together. It was the first time she’d seen
that spell cast wordlessly. “Order all your Aurors to cancel their
Patronus Charms for ten seconds,” said the old wizard. “What darkness
cannot find, the light may.”

Amelia snapped off the order to the communications officer, who would
notify all Aurors through their mirrors, commanding Dumbledore’s will to
be done.

That took a few moments, and it became a period of awful silence, none
of the Aurors daring to speak, while Amelia tried to weigh her own
thoughts. She must not leave this prison alive… Albus Dumbledore
wouldn’t turn into Bartemius Crouch without a strong reason. If he’d
meant to tell her why, he already would have; but it certainly wasn’t a
positive sign.

Still, it was good to know they’d be able to work together on this one.

“Now,” said a chorus of mirrors, and all the Patronus Charms winked out
except that blazing silver phœnix.

“Is there another Patronus still present?” the old wizard said clearly
to the bright creature.

The bright creature dipped its head in a nod.

“Can you find it?”

The silver head nodded again.

“Will you remember it, should it depart and come again?”

A final nod from the blazing phœnix.

“It is done,” Dumbledore said.

“Over,” said all the mirrors a moment later, and Amelia raised her wand
and began recasting her own Patronus. (Though it took some extra
concentration, with that wolfish smile already on her face, to think of
the first time Susan had kissed her cheek, instead of dwelling on the
looming fate of Bellatrix Black. That other Kiss was a happy thought
indeed, but not quite the right kind for the Patronus Charm.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They hadn’t even reached the end of that corridor before Harry’s
Patronus raised its hand, politely, as though in a classroom.

Harry thought quickly. The question was how to—no, that was also
obvious.

“It seems,” Harry said in a coldly amused voice, “that someone has
instructed this Patronus to speak its message only to me.” He chuckled.
“Well then. Pardon me, dear Bella. Quietus.”

At once the silver humanoid said in Harry’s own voice, “There is another
Patronus which seeks this Patronus.”

“What?” said Harry. And then, without pausing to think about what was
happening, “Can you block it? Stop it from finding you?”

The silver humanoid shook its head.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No sooner did Amelia and the other Aurors finish recasting their
Patronus Charms, when—

The blazing silver phœnix flew off, and the true red-golden phœnix
followed it, and the old wizard calmly strode after both of them with
his long wand gripped low.

The shields around their territory parted around the old wizard like
water, and closed behind him with hardly a ripple.

“Albus!” shouted Amelia. “What do you think you’re doing?”

But she already knew.

“Do not follow me,” the old wizard’s voice said sternly. “I can protect
myself, I cannot protect others.”

The curse Amelia shouted after him made even her own Aurors flinch.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This isn’t fair, isn’t fair, isn’t fair! There’s a limit to how many
constraints you can add to a problem before it really is impossible!

Harry blocked off the useless thoughts, ignored the fatigue he was
feeling, and forced his mind to confront the new requirements, he had to
think fast, use the adrenaline on following the chains of logic quickly
and without hesitation, instead of wasting it on despair.

For the mission to succeed,

(1) Harry would have to dispel his Patronus.

(2) Bellatrix needed to be hidden from the Dementors after the Patronus
was dispelled.

(3) Harry needed to resist the Dementors’ drain after his Patronus was
dispelled.

…

If I solve this one, said Harry’s brain, I want a cookie afterwards, and
if you make the problem any more difficult than this, I mean the
slightest bit more difficult, I am climbing out of your skull and
heading for Tahiti.

Harry and his brain considered the problem.

Azkaban had stood invincible for centuries, relying upon the
impossibility of evading the Dementors’ gaze. So if Harry found another
way to hide Bellatrix from the Dementors, it would rely on either his
scientific knowledge or his realization that the Dementors were Death.

Harry’s brain suggested that an obvious way to stop the Dementors from
seeing Bellatrix was to make her stop existing, i.e., kill her.

Harry congratulated his brain on thinking outside the box and told it to
continue searching.

Kill her and then bring her back, came the next suggestion. Use
Frigideiro to cool Bellatrix down to the point where her brain activity
stops, then warm her up afterwards using Thermos, just like people who
fall into very cold water can be successfully revived half-an-hour later
without noticeable brain damage.

Harry considered this. Bellatrix might not survive in her debilitated
state. And it might not stop Death from seeing her. And he’d have
trouble carrying a cold unconscious Bellatrix very far. And Harry
couldn’t remember the research on which exact body temperature was
supposed to be non-fatal but temporarily-brain-halting.

It was another good outside-the-box idea, but Harry told his brain to
keep thinking of…

…ways to hide from Death…

A frown moved over Harry’s face. He’d heard something about that,
somewhere.

One of the requisites for becoming a powerful wizard is an excellent
memory, Professor Quirrell had said. The key to a puzzle is often
something you read twenty years ago in an old scroll, or a peculiar ring
you saw on the finger of a man you met only once…

Harry focused as hard as he could, but he couldn’t remember, it was on
the tip of his tongue but he couldn’t remember; so he told his
subconscious to go on trying to recollect it, and refocused his
attention on the other half of the problem.

How can I protect myself from the Dementors without a Patronus Charm?

The Headmaster had been repeatedly exposed to a Dementor from a few
steps away, over and over throughout a whole day, and had come out of it
looking merely tired. How had the Headmaster done that? Could Harry do
it too?

It could just be some random genetic thing, in which case Harry was
screwed. But assuming the problem was solvable…

Then the obvious answer was that Dumbledore wasn’t afraid of death.

Dumbledore really wasn’t afraid of death. Dumbledore honestly, truly
believed that death was the next great adventure. Believed it in his
core, not just as convenient words used to suppress cognitive
dissonance, not just pretending to be wise. Dumbledore had decided that
death was the natural and normative order, and whatever tiny lingering
fear was still in him, it had taken a long time and repeated exposures
for the Dementor to drain him through that small flaw.

That avenue was closed to Harry.

And then Harry thought of the flip side, the obvious inverse question:

Why am I so much more vulnerable than average? Other students didn’t
fall over when they faced the Dementor.

Harry meant to destroy Death, to end it if he could. He meant to live
forever, if he could; he had hope of it, the thought of Death brought
him no sense of despair or inevitability. He was not blindly attached to
his own life; indeed it had taken an effort not to burn away all his
life on the need to protect others from Death. Why did the shadows of
Death have such power over Harry? He would not have thought himself so
afraid.

Was it Harry, all along, who’d been rationalizing? Who was secretly so
afraid of death that it was twisting his own thoughts, as Harry had
accused Dumbledore?

Harry considered this, preventing himself from flinching away. It felt
uncomfortable, but…

But…

But uncomfortable thoughts weren’t always true, and this one didn’t
sound exactly right. Like there was a grain of truth, but it wasn’t
hiding where the hypothesis said it was—

And that was when Harry realized.

Oh.

Oh, I understand now.

The one who is afraid, is…

Harry asked his dark side what it thought of death.

And Harry’s Patronus wavered, dimmed, almost went out upon the instant,
for that desperate, sobbing, screaming terror, an unutterable fear that
would do anything not to die, throw everything aside not to die, that
couldn’t think straight or feel straight in the presence of that
absolute horror, that couldn’t look into the abyss of non-existence any
more than it could have stared straight into the Sun, a blind terrified
thing that only wanted to find a dark corner and hide and not have to
think about it any more—

The silver figure had darkened to moonlight, was flickering like a
failing candle—

It’s all right, thought Harry, it’s all right.

Visualizing himself cradling his dark side like a frightened child in
his arms.

It’s right and proper to be horrified, because death is horrible. You
don’t have to hide your horror, you don’t have to feel ashamed of it,
you can wear it as a badge of honour, openly in the Sun.

It was strange, to feel himself split in two like this, the track of his
thoughts that gave the comfort, the track of his thoughts that followed
his dark side’s incomprehension at the alienness of the ordinary Harry’s
thoughts; of all the things that his dark side associated with its own
fear of death, the one thing it had never expected or imagined that it
might find, was acceptance and praise and help…

You don’t have to fight alone, Harry said silently to his dark side. The
rest of me will back you up on this. I won’t let myself die, and I won’t
let my friends die either. Not you/I, not Hermione, not Mum or Dad, not
Neville or Draco or anyone, this is the will to protect… Visualizing
wings of sunlight, like the wings of the Patronus he had spread, to give
shelter to that frightened child.

The Patronus brightened again, the world spun around Harry or it was his
own mind that was spinning?

Take my hand, Harry thought and visualized, come with me, and we will do
this thing together…

There was a lurch in Harry’s mind, like his brain had taken one step to
the left, or the universe had taken one step to the right.

And in a brightly lit corridor in Azkaban, the dim gas lights far
outshone by the steady and unwavering light of a human-shaped Patronus,
an invisible boy stood with a strange small smile on his face, shaking
only slightly.

Harry knew, somehow, that he’d just done something significant,
something that went beyond just strengthening his resistance to
Dementors.

And more than that, he’d remembered. Thinking of Death as an
anthropomorphic figure had done the trick, ironically enough. Now Harry
could remember it, what was reputed to hide someone from the gaze of
Death himself…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In a corridor of Azkaban, a wizard’s striding legs came to an abrupt
halt; for the bright silver thing that was his guide, had halted in
mid-air, fluttering its wings in distress. The brilliant white phœnix
craned its head, looking backward and forward as though confused; and
then it turned to its master and shook its head in apology.

Without another word, the old wizard turned and strode back the way he
came.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry stood straight and upright, feeling the fear wash over him and
around him. Some tiny part of him might have been eroded a little by the
waves of emptiness that broke continually upon his unmoving stone, but
his limbs were not cold, and his magic was with him. In time those waves
might corrode him and consume him, sneaking through whatever tiny part
of him still cowered before Death instead of using its fear to energize
itself for battle. But that doom would take time, with the shadows of
Death far away and uncaring of him. The flaw, the crack, the fault-line
that was in him had been repaired, and the stars blazed brightly in his
mind, vast and unafraid, and brilliant in the midst of cold and
darkness.

To anyone else’s eyes, it would have seemed that the boy stood alone in
the dimly lit metal corridor, wearing that strange smile.

For Bellatrix Black and the snake draped around her shoulders were
concealed by the Cloak of Invisibility, one of the three Deathly Hallows
and reputed to hide its wearer from the gaze of Death himself. The
riddle whose answer had been lost, and which Harry had found anew.

And Harry knew, now, that the concealment of the Cloak was more than the
mere transparency of Disillusionment, that the Cloak kept you hidden and
not just invisible, as unseeable as were Thestrals to the unknowing. And
Harry also knew that it was Thestral blood which painted the symbol of
the Deathly Hallows on the inside of the Cloak, binding into the Cloak
that portion of Death’s power, enabling the Cloak to confront the
Dementors on their own level and block them. It had felt like guessing,
and yet a certain guess, the knowledge coming to him in the instant of
solving the riddle.

Bellatrix was still transparent within the Cloak, but to Harry she was
no longer hidden, he knew that she was there, as obvious to him as a
Thestral. For Harry had only loaned his Cloak, not given it; and he had
comprehended and mastered the Deathly Hallow that had been passed down
through the Potter line.

Harry gazed directly at the invisible woman, and said, “Can the
Dementors reach you, Bella?”

“No,” said the woman in a soft, wondering voice. Then, “But my Lord…
you… ”

“If you say anything foolish, it will annoy me,” Harry said coldly. “Or
are you under the impression that I would sacrifice myself for you?”

“No, my Lord,” the Dark Lord’s servant replied, sounding puzzled, and
perhaps awed.

“Follow,” spoke Harry’s cold whisper.

And they continued their journey downward, as the Dark Lord reached into
his pouch, and took a cookie, and ate it. If Bellatrix had asked, Harry
would have claimed it was for the chocolate, but she didn’t ask.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old wizard strode back into the midst of the Aurors, the silver and
the red-golden phœnixes now following behind.

“You—” Amelia began to bellow.

“They have dismissed their Patronus,” said Dumbledore. The old wizard
didn’t seem to raise his voice but his calm words somehow overrode her
own. “I cannot find them now.”

Amelia gritted her teeth, and put a number of scathing remarks on hold,
and turned to the communications officer. “Tell the duty room to ask the
Dementors again if they can sense Bellatrix Black.”

The communications specialist spoke to her mirror for a moment, and a
few seconds later, looked up, surprised. “No—”

Amelia was already cursing violently in her mind.

“—but they can see someone else on the lower levels who isn’t a
prisoner.”

“Fine!” snapped Amelia. “Tell the Dementor that a dozen of its kind are
authorized to enter Azkaban and seize whoever that is and anyone in
their company! And if they see Bellatrix Black, they’re to Kiss her
immediately!”

Amelia turned and glared toward Dumbledore, then, daring him to argue;
but the old wizard only looked at her a bit sadly, and held his peace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Auror McCusker finished speaking to the corpse that drifted outside the
window, conveying the Director’s orders.

The corpse gave him a deathly smile that almost unstrung his limbs, and
then floated downward.

Soon after, a dozen Dementors arose from where they had drifted in the
central pit of Azkaban, and headed outward, toward the walls of the vast
metal structure that towered above them.

Entering through holes set into the base of Azkaban, the darkest of all
creatures began their march of horror.

57. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part VII:Constrained Cognition

HARRY had hoped that he’d just achieved fusion with his mysterious dark
side and would be enabled to draw on all of its benefits with none of
its drawbacks, call up the crystal clarity and indomitable will on
demand, without needing to go cold or angry.

Once again, he’d overestimated how much progress he’d made. Something
had happened, but Harry still had a mysterious dark side, it was still
separate from him, and his ordinary self was still domitable. And
despite the repair work he’d done on his dark side’s fear of death, he
didn’t dare go dark while unshielded in Azkaban, that was tempting fate
way too much.

Which was unfortunate, because a bit of indomitability would have sure
come in handy about now.

What made it harder was that he couldn’t slump against a wall, couldn’t
break into tears, couldn’t even heave a sigh. His dear Bella was
watching him and that wasn’t the sort of thing her Dark Lord would do.

“My Lord…” Bellatrix said. Her low voice was strained. “The Dementors…
they are coming… I can feel them, my Lord…”

“Thank you, Bella,” said a dry voice, “I already know that.”

Harry couldn’t sense the holes in the world the same way as when he’d
been wearing the Deathly Hallow, but he could feel the empty pull
increasing in intensity. At first he’d mistaken it for the result of
descending a stairwell, until he and Bellatrix had finished descending
and the pull had gone on increasing. Then decreased, as the Dementors
moved away along the spiral, then increased as they went up another
flight of stairs… There were Dementors within Azkaban itself now, and
they were coming for him. Of course they were. Harry might be resistant
now, but he was not hidden.

New requirement, Harry told his brain. Find a way of defeating Dementors
that doesn’t invoke my Patronus Charm. Alternatively, find yet another
way of hiding someone from Dementors, besides the Cloak of Invisibility—

I quit, said his brain. Find yourself another piece of computing
substrate to solve your ridiculously over-constrained problems.

I mean it, thought Harry.

So do I, said his brain. Put up your Patronus Charm and wait for the
Aurors to find you. Be sensible. It’s over.

Give up…

The sucking emptiness seemed to pull harder, as he thought it; and Harry
realized what was happening, concentrated more intensely on the stars,
turned his mind away from the despair—

You know, observed the logical side of him, if you’re not allowed to
think any negative thoughts because that will open your mind to the
Dementors, that’s a cognitive bias too, how would you know if it
actually was time to give up?

A desperate sobbing scream rose up from below, words mixed in like “no”
and “away”. The prisoners knew, the prisoners could feel it.

The Dementors were coming.

“My Lord, you—you should not risk yourself for me—take back your Cloak—”

“Be silent, fool,” hissed an angry voice. “When I decide to sacrifice
you I will tell you so.”

She’s got a valid point, said Slytherin. You shouldn’t risk yourself for
her, there’s no way her life is as valuable as yours.

For an instant Harry considered sacrificing Bellatrix to save himself—

And in that moment, some of the dim orange gas-light seemed to flee the
corridor, a touch of cold crept over Harry’s fingertips. And he knew,
then, that to think of leaving Bellatrix to the shadows of Death, would
make him vulnerable once more. Even in the moment of making the
decision, he might become unable to cast the Patronus Charm, for he
would have given up the thought that had saved him before.

It occurred to Harry that he could still take the Cloak from Bellatrix
afterwards, even if he couldn’t cast the Patronus Charm; and then he had
to wrench his thoughts away from that option, focus firmly on his
decision not to do it, or he might have just fallen over where he stood.
For the whirlpool of emptiness swirling around him was now deadly
strong; there were screams coming from above, and the screams below had
stopped.

This is ridiculous, said his logical side. Rational agents shouldn’t
have to put up with this sort of censored reasoning process, all the
theorems assume that how you think doesn’t affect reality apart from
your actual actions, which is why you’re free to choose an optimal
algorithm without worrying about how your thoughts interact with
Dementors—

…

That is a really dumb idea, said Gryffindor. Even I think it’s a dumb
idea and I’m your Gryffindor side. You’re not seriously going to just
stand there and—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“We have a fix!” shouted Ora, holding up her magic mirror as though in
triumph. “The Dementor outside the inner wall pointed to level seven, C
spiral, that’s where they are!”

Her Aurors were looking at her expectantly.

“No,” Amelia said in a level voice. “That’s where one of them is. The
Dementors still can’t find Bellatrix Black. We are not running down
there and letting her through in the confusion, and we are not dividing
our forces to be ambushed. So long as we move with caution, we can’t
lose. Tell Scrimgeour and Shacklebolt to keep going down level by level,
same as before—”

The old wizard was already striding forward. Amelia didn’t even bother
cursing him, this time, as once again their carefully constructed
shields parted like water and rippled gently in his wake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry waited at the beginning of the corridor, just next to the stairs
leading upward. Bellatrix and the snake were behind him, concealed by
the Deathly Hallow that Harry had mastered; he knew, though he could not
see, that the emaciated sorceress was sitting upon the stairs, slumped
back, since Harry had withdrawn his Hover Charm to free up his mind and
magic.

Harry’s eyes were fixed on the far end of the corridor, next to the
stairs that led downward. Not in his mind now, but in true reality, the
light in the corridor had dimmed, the temperature had fallen. The fear
thundered over him and around him like a sea whipped by hurricane winds,
and the sucking emptiness had become a howling draw toward some
approaching black hole.

Up the stairs at the far end, floating smoothly through the dying air,
came the voids, the absences, the wounds in the world.

And Harry expected them to stop.

With all the will and focus he could muster, Harry expected them to
stop.

Anticipated their stopping.

Believed they would stop.

…that was the idea, anyway…

Harry shut down the dangerous stray thought, and expected the Dementors
to halt. They had no intelligence of their own, they were just wounds in
the world, their form and structure was borrowed from others’
expectations. People had been able to negotiate with them, offer them
victims in exchange for cooperation, only because they believed
Dementors would bargain. So if Harry believed hard enough that the voids
would turn and go, they would turn and go.

But the wounds in the world kept coming, the swirling fear seemed like a
solid thing now, the emptiness tearing at matter as well as mind,
substance as well as spirit, you could see the metal beginning to
tarnish as the holes in the world passed.

A small sound came from behind him, from Bellatrix, but she said no
word, for she had been instructed to remain silent.

Don’t think of them as creatures, think of them as psycho-sensitive
objects, they can be controlled if I can control myself—

The problem was that he couldn’t control himself so easily, couldn’t
make himself believe blue was green by an act of will. Couldn’t suppress
all those thoughts about how irrational it was to make yourself believe
something. How impossible it was to trick yourself into believing
something if you knew that was what you were doing. All the training
Harry had given himself against self-deception was refusing to switch
off no matter how harmful it was in this unique special case—

The shadows of Death crossed the halfway point of the corridor, and
Harry held up his hand, fingers spread, and said in a voice of firm and
confident command, “Stop.”

The shadows of Death stopped.

Behind Harry, Bellatrix gave a strangled gasp, like it was being torn
out of her.

Harry gestured to her, the signal he had set up in advance which meant,
repeat what you heard the Dementors say.

“They say,” Bellatrix said, her voice was shaking, “they said,
‘Bellatrix Black was promised us. Tell us where she hides, and you will
be spared.’”

“Bellatrix?” Harry said, making his voice sound amused. “She escaped a
while ago.”

A moment later, Harry realized that he should have said that Bellatrix
was among the Aurors in the top level, that would have caused more
confusion—

No, it was wrong to think of the Dementors as trickable, they were
merely things, they were controlled only by expectations—

“They say,” Bellatrix said in a cracked voice, “they say they know
you’re lying.”

The voids began to move forward again.

Her anticipations are more solidly believed than mine; she is
controlling them, unwittingly—

“Don’t resist,” Harry said, pointing his wand behind him.

“I, I love you, farewell, my Lord—”

“Somnium.”

It had helped, strangely enough, hearing those particular awful words,
understanding Bellatrix’s mistake; it reminded Harry why he was
fighting.

“Stop,” Harry said again. Bellatrix was asleep; now only his own will,
his own expectations rather, should control those spheres of
annihilation—

But they kept on gliding forward, and Harry couldn’t stop himself from
worrying that the previous experience had damaged his confidence, which
meant that he wouldn’t be able to stop them, and as he noticed himself
thinking that, he doubted even more—he needed more time to prepare,
really ought to practise controlling just one Dementor in a cage first—

There was only a quarter of corridor now between Harry and the shadows
of death, the empty winds were so strong that Harry could feel the
erosion beginning in the cracks of himself.

And the thought came to Harry that maybe he was wrong, maybe Dementors
did have their own desires and planning capability. Or maybe they were
controlled by how everyone thought they worked, not just whoever was
closest to them. And in either case—

Harry drew up his wand into the starting position for the Patronus
Charm, and spoke.

“One of your number went to Hogwarts and did not return. It no longer
exists; that Death is dead.”

The Dementors halted, a dozen wounds in the world stood motionless,
while the emptiness screamed around them like a deadly wind to nowhere.

“Turn and go and do not speak of this to anyone, little shadows, or I
will destroy you as well.”

Harry’s fingers slid into the starting position for the Patronus Charm,
and readied himself to cast it; in his mind, the Earth shone among the
stars, the day side bright and blue with reflected sunlight, the night
side glimmering with the light of human cities. Harry wasn’t bluffing,
wasn’t trying to do anything tricky with his thoughts. The shadows of
Death would move forward and be annihilated, or they would depart, he
was equally ready for either…

And the voids retreated back as smoothly as they came, the winds of
nothingness lessening with each metre they traversed, as they slid back
down the stairs, and departed.

Whether they truly had their own pseudo-intelligence, or whether Harry
had finally succeeded in expecting them to go… that, Harry didn’t know.

But they were gone.

Harry took a moment to sit down beside the unconscious Bellatrix on the
stairs, and slumped down as she was slumped, closing his eyes for a
moment, only a moment, he sure as hell wasn’t planning to sleep in
Azkaban, but he needed to take that moment. The Aurors would still be
going down the stairs slowly, Harry hoped, so it wouldn’t hurt to take
just five minutes to rest. Harry was careful to keep his thoughts
positive, cheerful, my, I’ll just have some nice regenerative rest here,
and then I’ll feel better, rather than, say, my, I’ll just collapse in
emotional and physical exhaustion, because the Dementors hadn’t yet
retreated very far.

And by the way, Harry said to his brain, you’re fired.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“I found him!” cried the old wizard’s voice.

Who? thought Amelia, as she turned to see Dumbledore’s return, carrying
in his arms—

—the one sight, the one person, she would never have expected to behold—

—a man in torn red robes, looking scorched like he’d fought a small war,
blood dried on many cuts. His eyes were open, and he was chewing on a
bar of chocolate, held in his one living hand.

Bahry One-Hand was alive.

A glad cry went up, her Aurors lowering their wands, some of them
already starting to rush forward.

“Stay on guard!” bellowed Amelia. “Check them both for Polyjuice—scan
Bahry for small Animagi or traps—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Innervate. Wingardium Leviosa.”

There was a pause. Harry sensed, though he could not quite see, that the
invisible woman was pushing herself to her feet, and turning her head to
look around. “I’m… alive…?”

Harry was sorely tempted to say no, just to see what she made of that.
Instead he hissed, “Don’t ask stupid questions.”

“What happened?” whispered Bellatrix.

And the Dark Lord gave a wild, high-pitched laugh, and said, “I scared
the Dementors away, my dear Bella.”

There was a pause. Harry wished he could see Bellatrix’s face; had he
said the wrong thing?

After a time, in a quavering voice, “Could it be, my Lord, that in your
new form, you have begun to care for me—”

“No,” Harry said coldly, and turned from her (though he kept his wand on
her), and began walking. “And take care that you do not offend me again,
or I will abandon you here, use or no use. Now follow, or be left
behind; I have work to do.”

Harry strode forward, not listening to the gasping sounds that came from
behind him; he knew Bellatrix was following.

…because the last thing that woman needed, the very last thing she
needed to start thinking before the psychiatric healer began trying to
de-program her, was to believe that her Dark Lord could ever love her
back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old wizard smoothed his silver beard contemplatively, looking at
where Auror Bahry was being carried out of the room by two strong
Aurors.

“Do you understand this, Amelia?”

“No,” she said simply. She suspected some trap they hadn’t yet been able
to fathom, which was why Auror Bahry was going to be kept outside the
main party and guarded.

“Perhaps,” the old wizard said at length, “whichever of their number can
cast the Patronus Charm, is more than a simple hostage. Someone who was
tricked into this, mayhap? For whatever reason, they left your Auror
alive; let us not be the first to wield deadly curses, when we find
them—”

“I see,” said the old witch in sudden realization, “that was their plan.
It costs them nothing to Obliviate him and leave him alive, and makes us
hesitate—” Amelia nodded decisively, and said to her people, “We carry
on as before.”

The old wizard sighed. “Any news from the Dementors?”

“If I tell you,” Amelia snapped, “will you run off again?”

“It costs you nothing, Amelia,” the old wizard said quietly, “and may
save one of your own people the fight.”

Costs me nothing except my chance at vengeance—

But that was nothing compared to the other, the annoying old wizard was
often right in the end, it was part of what made him so annoying.

“The Dementors have ceased to answer questions about the other person
they said they saw,” Amelia told him, “and they will not say why, nor
where.”

Dumbledore turned to the blazing silver phœnix on his shoulder, whose
light illuminated the whole corridor, and received a silent head-shake
in reply. “I cannot detect them either,” said Dumbledore. Then he
shrugged. “I suppose I shall just walk the whole spiral from top to
bottom and see if anything turns up, shall I?”

Amelia would have ordered him not to do it, if she thought that would
have made the tiniest difference.

“Albus,” said Amelia as the old wizard turned to depart, “even you can
be ambushed.”

“Nonsense, my dear,” the old wizard said cheerfully as he strode off yet
again, waving as though in admonition his fifteen-inch wand of
unidentifiable dark-grey wood, “I’m invincible.”

There was a pause.

(“He didn’t just really say that—” whispered the newest Auror present, a
still-prim young lady by the name of Noelle Curry, to the senior member
of her trio, Auror Brooks. “Did he?”)

(“He can get away with it,” Isabel whispered back to her, “he’s
Dumbledore, not even Fate takes him seriously any more.”)

“And that,” Amelia said heavily, for the benefit of the younger Aurors,
“is why we never call him in on anything unless we absolutely must.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry lay very still on the hard bench that served as the bed of this
cell, a blanket pulled over him, staying as absolutely motionless as he
could while he waited for the fear to return. There was a Patronus
approaching, and a powerful one. Bellatrix was hidden by a Deathly
Hallow, no easy Charm would penetrate that; but Harry did not know what
other arts the Aurors might employ to detect his own self, and dared not
reveal his ignorance by asking her. So Harry lay on a hard bed, in a
cell with a locked door, and the mighty metal door locked behind him, in
absolute darkness, with a thin blanket pulled over him, hoping that
whoever it was wouldn’t look in, or wouldn’t look too closely if they
did—

That wasn’t a point Harry could affect, really, that part of his fate
lay entirely in the hands of the Hidden Variables. Most of his mind was
concentrating on the ongoing Transfiguration he was performing.

Listening in the silence, Harry heard the quick footsteps approach; they
paused outside his door, and then—

—continued onward.

Soon the fear returned.

Harry didn’t allow himself to notice his own relief, any more than he
allowed himself to notice the fear. He was holding in his mind the form
of a Muggle device rather larger than a car battery, and slowly applying
that Form to the substance of an ice cube (which Harry had frozen using
Frigideiro on water from a bottle in his pouch). You weren’t supposed to
Transfigure things to be burned, but between the original substance
being water, and the Bubble-Head Charm to protect their air supply,
Harry hoped that this wouldn’t make him or anyone else sick.

Now it was just a question of whether there would be enough time before
the Aurors did a detailed check on this cell block, for Harry to finish
this Transfiguration, and the partial Transfiguration he would do after
that—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the old wizard strode back empty-handed, even Amelia began to feel
a twinge of worry. She and the other two Auror teams had worked a third
of the way down the three spirals, in synchrony so as not to allow any
gap in their coverage that could be jumped by cutting through a ceiling,
and they’d yet to find any sign.

“Might I ask you to report?” Amelia said, keeping the edge out of her
voice.

“First a simple walk from top to bottom,” said the old wizard. He was
frowning, wrinkling his face even more than usual. “I examined
Bellatrix’s cell, and found a death doll left in her place. This escape
was meant to go unremarked, I think. There is something hidden in the
corner beneath a scrap of cloth; I left that undisturbed for your Aurors
to examine. On the return trip, I opened each door and looked within the
cells. I saw nothing Disillusioned, only the prisoners—”

They were interrupted by a scream from the red-golden phœnix, and all
her Aurors flinched from it. Condemnation was in it, and an urgent
demand that almost started Amelia running from the corridor on the spot.

“—in rather distressing condition,” Dumbledore said quietly. For a
moment the blue eyes were very cold beneath the half-moon glasses. “Will
any of you speak to me of the consequences of their actions?”

“I did not—” Amelia began.

“I know,” said the old wizard. “My apologies, Amelia.” He sighed. “Some
of the more recent prisoners had scraps of their magic left, when I
looked upon them, but I sensed no uneaten power; the strongest had only
as much magic left as a first-year child. I heard Fawkes scream in
distress many times, but never challenge. It seems you shall have to
continue your search; they can hide well enough to escape my mere
glance.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Harry finished his first Transfiguration, he sat up, pulled back
the blanket that had covered him, cast a quick Lumos, glanced at his
watch, and was shocked to see that nearly an hour and thirty minutes had
passed. How much of that time had gone by since someone had opened the
door and then closed it again—Harry hadn’t been looking in that
direction, of course—that, Harry couldn’t guess.

“My Lord…?” whispered Bellatrix’s voice, soft and very tentative.

“You may speak now,” Harry said. He’d told her to remain silent while he
worked.

“That was Dumbledore who looked upon us.”

Pause.

“Interesting,” Harry said neutrally. He was glad he had not noticed this
at the time. That sounded like a rather close shave.

Harry said a word to his pouch, and began drawing forth the magical
device that he would mate to the product of his hour’s labour. Then,
when that was drawn forth, another word brought forth a tube of
industrial-strength glue; before using it, Harry cast the Bubble-Head
Charm on himself and Bellatrix, and had Bellatrix cast the same Charm on
the snake, so that the glue fumes in the enclosed cell would not harm
them.

When the glue had begun to set, binding technology to magic, Harry laid
it down upon the bed, and sat down on the floor, resting his magic and
will for a moment before essaying the next Transfiguration.

“My Lord…” Bellatrix said hesitantly.

“Yes?” said the dry voice.

“What is that device you made?”

Harry thought rapidly. It seemed like a good chance to check his plans
with her, under the guise of leading questions.

“Consider, my dear Bella,” said Harry smoothly. “How difficult is it for
a powerful wizard to cut the walls of Azkaban?”

There was a pause, and then Bellatrix’s voice came, slow and puzzled,
“Not difficult at all, my Lord…?”

“Indeed,” said the dry, high voice of Bella’s master. “Suppose one were
to do this, and fly through the hole on a broomstick, and soar up and
away. Rescuing a prisoner from Azkaban would seem easy then, would it
not?”

“But my Lord…” said Bella. “The Aurors would—they have their own
broomsticks, my Lord, fast ones—”

Harry listened, it was as he had thought. The Dark Lord replied, again
in tones of smoothly Socratic inquiry, and Bellatrix asked a further
question, which Harry had not expected, but Harry’s own counter-question
showed that it should not matter in the end. And in response to
Bellatrix’s last question, the Dark Lord only smiled, and said that it
was time for him to resume his work.

And then Harry got up from the floor of the cell, went to the far end of
the cells, and touched his wand to the hard surface of the wall—the wall
of Azkaban, the solid metal that separated them from direct exposure to
the Dementors’ pit.

And Harry began a partial Transfiguration.

This spell would go faster, Harry hoped. He’d spent hours and hours
practising the unique magic, which had made it routine, not much more
difficult for him than ordinary Transfiguration. The shape he was
changing had not all that much total volume, the Transfigured shape
might be tall and wide and long, but it was very thin. Half a
millimetre, Harry had thought, would be enough, considering the perfect
smoothness…

On the long bench that served as a prison bed, where Harry had set down
the Transfigured technological device and the mated magic item for the
glue to dry, tiny letters in golden script gleamed on the Muggle
artefact. Harry hadn’t really planned for them to be there, but they’d
kept running through the back of his mind, and so seemed to have become
part of the Transfigured form.

There were many different things Harry could have said before using this
particular triumph of technological ingenuity. Any number of things that
would be, in one sense or another, appropriate. Or at least things that
Harry could have said, would have said, if Bellatrix had not been there.

But there was only one thing to say, that Harry would only get the
chance to say just this once, and probably never get a better chance to
say ever again. (Or think, anyway, if he couldn’t say it.) He hadn’t
seen the actual film, but he’d seen a preview, and for some reason the
phrase had stuck in his mind.

The tiny golden letters upon the Muggle device said,

All right, you primitive screwheads! Listen up!

58. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part VIII:Constrained Cognition

E. Y.: A movie trailer for Army of Darkness, resembling the one Harry
saw, is UHZQEtG8xYo on YouTube

The key quote is as follows, spoken by a man of modern times to
listeners from the Middle Ages: “All right you primitive screwheads!
Listen up! You see this? This… is my boomstick!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

IN darkness absolute, a boy stood holding his wand to the solid metal
wall of Azkaban, essaying a magic that only three other people in the
world would have believed possible, and that none save he alone could
wield.

Of course a powerful wizard could’ve cut through the wall in seconds,
with a gesture and a word.

For an average adult it might have been a matter of a few minutes’ work,
and afterwards they would have been winded.

But to accomplish the same end as a first-year Hogwarts student, you had
to be efficient.

Luckily—well, not luckily, luck had nothing to do with
it—conscientiously, Harry had practised Transfiguration for an extra
hour every day, to the point where he was ahead of even Hermione in that
one class; he’d practised partial Transfiguration to the point where his
thoughts had begun taking the true universe for granted, so that it
required only slightly more effort to keep its timeless quantum nature
in mind, even as he kept a firm mental separation between the concept of
Form and the concept of substance.

And the problem with that art having become so routine…

…was that Harry could think about other things while he was doing it.

Somehow his thoughts had managed to not go there, to not confront the
obvious, until he was faced with the prospect of really actually doing
it in just a few minutes.

What Harry was about to do…

…was dangerous.

Really dangerous.

Someone-might-actually-genuinely-get-killed dangerous.

Facing down twelve Dementors without a Patronus Charm had been scary,
but merely scary. Harry could have cast the Patronus Charm, would have
cast it as soon as he thought he was in danger of not being able to do
so, as soon as he felt his resistance beginning to fail. And even if
that hadn’t worked… even so, unless the Dementors had been instructed to
Kiss anyone they found, failure shouldn’t have been fatal.

This was different.

The Transfigured Muggle device could explode and kill them.

The interface between the technology and the magic could fail in any
number of ways and kill them.

The Aurors could get in a lucky shot.

It was just, well…

Seriously dangerous.

Harry had caught his mind trying to argue itself into believing that it
was safe.

And sure, the whole thing could work, but…

But even leaving out that rationalists weren’t ever allowed to argue
themselves into things, Harry knew he couldn’t possibly have argued
himself into estimating less than a 20% probability of dying.

Lose, said Hufflepuff.

Lose, said the voice of Professor Quirrell in his mind.

Lose, said his mental model of Hermione and Professor McGonagall and
Professor Flitwick and Neville Longbottom and, well, basically everyone
Harry knew except for Fred and George, who would have gone for it in a
hot second.

He should just go find Dumbledore and turn himself in. He should, he
really really should, it was the only sane thing to do at this point.

And if it’d been only Harry on the mission, only his own life that’d
been at stake, he would have; he surely would have.

The part that was almost causing him to lose his concentration on the
partial Transfiguration he was performing, the part that was threatening
to open him to the Dementors…

…was Professor Quirrell, still unconscious, still a snake.

If Professor Quirrell went to Azkaban for his part in the escape, he
would die. He probably wouldn’t last even a week. He was that sensitive.

It was that simple.

If Harry lost here…

He lost Professor Quirrell.

Even though he’s probably evil, said the Hufflepuff part of him quietly.
Even so?

It wasn’t a decision that Harry had made in any conscious way. He just
couldn’t do it. Losing was for House points, not people.

If you think your own life is valuable enough that you’re not willing to
take on an eighty percent probability of dying in order to protect all
the prisoners in Azkaban, his Slytherin side observed, there’s no way
you can justify taking a twenty percent risk to your life to save
Bellatrix and Professor Quirrell. The maths doesn’t add up, you can’t be
assigning consistent utilities over outcomes here.

The logical side of him noted that Slytherin had just won the argument.

Harry kept the Form in his mind, kept on casting the spell. He could
always just abort the mission when he was done with the Transfiguration,
he didn’t want to lose the effort he’d already invested.

And then Harry thought of something else that suddenly made it very hard
to keep the magic going, very hard to keep up his resistance to the
Dementors.

What if the portkey doesn’t take us where Professor Quirrell said it
did?

It was obvious in retrospect the moment he thought about it.

Even if the planned escape went completely right, even if the Muggle
device worked and didn’t explode and didn’t interact badly with the
mated magic item, even if the Aurors didn’t get in a lucky shot, even if
Harry made it far enough away from Azkaban to use the portkey…

…there might not be a psychiatric healer at the end of it.

That was something Harry had believed when he’d trusted Professor
Quirrell, and he’d forgotten to re-evaluate it after Professor Quirrell
was no longer to be trusted.

You can’t do this, said Hufflepuff. At this point we’re talking mere
stupidity.

Cold seemed to spread through the room, but Harry kept the
Transfiguration going, even as his resistance against the Dementors
faltered.

I can’t lose Professor Quirrell.

He tried to kill a police officer, said Hufflepuff. You already lost
him, in that moment. Bellatrix is probably just what everyone thinks she
is. Just take your Cloak back, go find Dumbledore and tell him you were
tricked.

No, thought Harry desperately, not without talking to Professor
Quirrell, there might be an explanation, I don’t know, maybe he was
standing far enough away from my Patronus that the Dementors got to him…
I don’t understand, it doesn’t make sense on any hypothesis, why he
would do that… I can’t just…

Harry turned his mind away from that chain of thought before it
completely broke his resistance to the fear, because he couldn’t think
of feeding Professor Quirrell to Dementors while staying resolved
against Death, it was a cognitive impossibility.

Your reasoning is artificially impaired, observed the logical part of
him calmly, find a way to unimpair it.

All right, let’s just generate alternatives, Harry thought. Not choose,
not weigh, certainly not commit… just think about what else I might be
able to do besides the original plan.

And Harry went on cutting the hole in the wall. He was using partial
Transfiguration on a thin cylindrical shell of metal, two metres in
diameter and half a millimetre thick, running all the way through the
wall. He was Transfiguring that half-millimetre thickness of metal into
motor oil. Motor oil was a liquid and you weren’t to Transfigure liquids
because they might evaporate, but he and Bellatrix and the snake all had
Bubble-Head Charms. And Harry would cast Finite on the oil immediately
after, dispelling his own Transfiguration…

…as soon as the separated and lubricated hunk of metal slid out of the
wall and onto the floor of their cell, he’d slanted it so gravity would
pull it in, once the Transfiguration was done.

If Harry and Bellatrix didn’t exit on his broomstick through the
resulting hole in the wall…

Harry’s brain suggested that he could try to Transfigure a surface cover
over the hole in the wall, leaving a space for Bellatrix and Professor
Quirrell to hide in, wearing the Cloak, while Harry turned himself in.
And Professor Quirrell would eventually wake up, and he and Bellatrix
could try to figure out how to exit Azkaban on their own.

It was, first of all, a dumb idea, and second, there would still be a
huge hunk of metal on the floor of the cell, which would give it away.

And then Harry’s brain saw the obvious.

Let Bellatrix and Professor Quirrell use the escape route you invented.
You stay behind, and turn yourself in.

Bellatrix and Professor Quirrell were the ones whose lives were at
stake.

They were gaining, not losing, from taking the risk.

And there was no reason, no sane reason at all, for Harry to go with
them.

A calm came over Harry as he thought it, the cold and darkness that had
been wavering around the fringes of his mind retreated. Yes, that was
it, that was the creative outside-the-box route, that was the hidden
third alternative. The falseness of the dilemma was obvious in
retrospect. If Harry turned himself in, he didn’t have to turn in
Bellatrix and Professor Quirrell. If Bellatrix and Professor Quirrell
took a dangerous escape route, Harry didn’t need to go with them.

Harry didn’t even need to face the embarrassment of admitting he’d been
tricked, if he ordered Bellatrix to remove the memory. Everyone would
just assume he’d been kidnapped, including Harry himself. Admittedly,
there was no plausible reason why the Dark Lord would ever ask Bellatrix
to do that; but Harry could simply smile and tell Bellatrix she wasn’t
allowed to know, and that would be that…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Her Auror team was around three-quarters of the way down Azkaban, as
were the other two teams on the other two spirals. Amelia was feeling
tenser already, though she was betting on the criminals hiding on the
second-to-lowest floor, part of her wished Dumbledore had thought to
check that specific floor more carefully and part of her was glad he
hadn’t.

And then there was a distant sound, like a tiny ‘tink’ noise coming from
far away. Like a very loud sound coming from the second-to-lowest floor,
say.

Amelia looked at Dumbledore before she realized, before she managed to
stop herself.

The old wizard shrugged, gave her a small smile, said, “Since you asked
it, Amelia,” and went off yet again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Finite Incantatem,” Harry said to the oil coating the giant chunk of
metal on the floor. He hardly heard himself speak, his ears were still
ringing from the gigantic thud of the solid metal sliding out of the
wall and falling. (He should have put up a Quieting Charm, in
retrospect, though that wouldn’t have stopped the noise from spreading
through the solid metal floor.) And then Harry said it again, “Finite
Incantatem” to the oil coating the two-metre hole in the wall, spreading
the effect wide; it was his own magic Harry was cancelling, which made
the spell almost effortless. Harry was feeling a bit tired now, but that
was the last use of magic he would need. He hadn’t even needed to do it,
really, but Harry didn’t want to leave Transfigured liquid lying around,
and he didn’t want to betray the secret of partial Transfiguration
either.

It seemed very… inviting, that two-metre hole leading to freedom.

The light from outside coming in… wasn’t exactly the Sun shining on his
face, but it was brighter than anything in Azkaban’s interior.

Harry was tempted to just go with them, just hop on the broomstick with
Bellatrix and the snake. Chances were that they would get out safely.
And if they did get out safely, and Harry came along, then he and
Professor Quirrell could go back in time and look perfectly innocent,
and everything could go back to normal.

If Harry stayed behind and turned himself in… then even if everyone
assumed Harry had been a hostage, assumed Harry had lied to Professor
McGonagall’s Patronus at wand-point… even if Harry himself got off
lightly, well…

It wasn’t likely that the Defence Professor would go on teaching at
Hogwarts.

Professor Quirrell would have reached the predestined end of his career,
in February of the school year.

And yes, Professor McGonagall would kill Harry, and yes, it would be
slow and painful.

But staying behind was the sensible, safe, sane thing to do, and Harry
was feeling more relaxed than regretful.

Harry turned to Bellatrix; he opened his mouth to instruct her a final
time—

And there was a hiss, a weak hiss, a hiss that sounded slow and
confused, and the hiss said,

“What wass… that noisse?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Through the corridor the old wizard strode. He came to a metal door and
opened it, already knowing from memory that the cells within were empty.

Seven mighty and discerning incantations the wizard spoke then, before
he moved on; it would be little enough exertion in total, with so few
cells left to check.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Teacher,” Harry hissed. So many emotions bubbling up in him, all at
once. He knew, though he could not see, that the green snake around
Bellatrix’s shoulders was slowly lifting its head to look around. “Are
you… all right, teacher?”

“Teacher?” came the weak, confused hiss. “Where iss thiss?”

“Prisson,” Harry replied, “the prison with life-eaters, we were to
rescue a woman, you and I. You tried to slay the protector man, I
blocked your killing curse, there was a resonance between us… you fell
unconscious, I had to defeat the protector man myself… my guardian Charm
was dispelled, the life-eaters could tell the protectors that the woman
had escaped. There is someone here who can sense my guardian Charm,
probably the schoolmaster… so had to dispel my guardian Charm, find
different way to hide you and the woman from life-eaters without
guardian Charm, learn to protect myself without guardian Charm, scare
off life-eaters without guardian Charm, then devise new escape plan for
you and the woman, and finally, cut hole in thick metal wall of prison
even though I am only first-year student. No time to explain, you must
go now. If we never meet again, teacher, then I was glad to know you for
a time, even though you are probably evil. It is good to have the chance
to say this much: goodbye.”

And Harry took the broomstick and presented it to Bellatrix, saying
simply, “Get on.”

He had decided to keep the memories. For one thing, they were important.
For another, he and the Defence Professor had started planning this a
week ago, and Harry wasn’t about to obliterate the whole last week, or
explain to Bellatrix exactly what needed to be Obliviated. Harry could
probably fool Veritaserum, and if Dumbledore insisted that Harry drop
his Occlumency shields for a deeper examination… well, Harry had acted
heroically throughout.

“Sstop!” said the snake. Its voice was stronger now. “Sstop, sstop,
sstop! What do you mean, goodbye?”

“Esscape plan iss rissky,” said Harry. “My life iss not at sstake, only
yourss and herss. Sso I am sstaying, turning mysself in—”

“No!” said the snake. The hiss was forceful. “Musst not! Not permitted!”

Bellatrix mounted the broomstick; Harry could sense (but never see) her
head turning to look at him, she said no word. Awaiting him, perhaps, or
merely awaiting his orders.

“No longer trusst you,” Harry said simply. “Not ssince you tried to
sslay the protector man.”

And the snake hissed, “I did not sseek to sslay the protector man! Are
you fool, boy? Sslaying him would not make ssensse, evil or no!”

The Earth ceased to turn on its axis, paused in its orbit around the
Sun.

The snake’s hiss was now more furious than anything Harry had ever heard
from the human Professor Quirrell. “Sslay him? Had I ssought to sslay
him he would have been dead within ssecondss, fool boy, he wass no match
for me! I ssought to ssubdue, to dominate, force him to drop sshieldss
upon hiss mind, needed to read him, to know who awaited hiss reply,
learn detailss for memory sspell—”

“You casst killing cursse!”

“Knew he would dodge!”

“Wass hiss life worth sso little? What if he did not dodge?”

“Would have pusshed him out of the way with own magic, fool boy!”

Again the pause in the planet’s spin. Harry hadn’t thought of that.

“Witlesss dunce of a plotter,” hissed the snake, so angrily that the
hisses seemed to overlap and slither over each other’s tails, “clever
imbecile, cunning idiot, fool of an untrained Sslytherin, your
missplaced misstrusst hass ruined—”

“Thiss iss not a fair time to argue,” Harry observed mildly. The surge
of relief trying to flood through him was cancelled by the increased
tension. “Ssince I cannot get angry at you properly, without opening
mysself to life-eaterss. Musst russh, ssomeone may have heard noisse—”

“Exsplain esscape plan,” the snake said imperiously. “Sswiftly!”

Harry explained. Parseltongue didn’t have words for the Muggle
technology, but Harry described the function and Professor Quirrell
seemed to understand.

There were a few short hisses, the snakish equivalent of a bark of
surprised laughter, and then, snapped commands. “Tell woman to look
away, casst sspell of ssilence, sset guardian Charm outsside door. Will
transsform mysself, make few sswift improvementss to your invention,
give woman emergency potion sso sshe can sshield uss, transsform back
before you disspel Charm. Plan will be ssafer, then.”

“And am I to believe,” Harry hissed, “that healer for woman truly
awaitss uss?”

“Usse ssensse, boy! Ssupposse I am evil. To end usse of you here iss
obvioussly not what I planned. Misssion iss target of opportunity,
invented after ssaw your guardian Charm, whole affair meant to be
unnoticed, hid when left eating-place. Obvioussly you will ssee persson
pretending to be healer on arrival! Go back to eating-place afterwardss,
original plan carriess on undissturbed!”

Harry stared at the invisible snake.

On the one hand, saying it like that made Harry feel rather dumb.

And on the other hand, it wasn’t exactly reassuring.

“Sso,” Harry hissed, “what iss your plan for me, precissely?”

“You ssaid no time,” came the snake’s hiss, “but plan iss for you to
rule country, obvioussly, even your young noble friend hass undersstood
that by now, assk him on return if you wissh. Will ssay no more now, iss
time to fly, not sspeak.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old wizard reached out toward another metal door, from behind which
came an endless dead mutter, “I’m not serious, I’m not serious, I’m not
serious…” The red-golden phœnix on his shoulder was already screaming
urgently, and the old wizard was already wincing, when—

Another cry pierced the corridor, phœnix-like but not the true phœnix’s
call.

The wizard’s head turned, looked at the blazing silver creature on his
other shoulder, even as ephemeral and immaterial talons launched the
spell-entity into the air.

The false phœnix flew down the corridor.

The old wizard raced off after, legs churning like a spry young man of
sixty.

The true phœnix screamed once, twice, and a third time, hovering before
the metal door; and then, when it became clear that its master would not
return for all its calling, flew reluctantly after.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professor Quirrell had assumed his true form, this time—Polyjuice only
lasted for an hour without re-dosing—and though the Defence Professor
was pale, leaning against the metal bars of the nearest cell, his magic
was strong enough to seize his wand without a word, even as Bellatrix
doffed the Cloak and placed it obediently in Harry’s waiting hand. The
sense of doom was building once more, though not in full force, as the
Defence Professor’s power returned, the fringes of its vast force
clashing with Harry’s slight childish aura.

Harry said aloud the description of his Muggle device, naming it to the
observing wizard, and then a Finite from Harry turned all his hard work
back into an ice cube. Professor Quirrell could not cast spells on
something Harry had Transfigured, for that would be an interaction,
however slight, between their magics, but—

Three seconds after, Professor Quirrell was holding his own Transfigured
version of the Muggle device. A single barked word and a sweep of his
wand, and the residue of glue was gone from the magical item; three more
incantations later, the magical and technological were fused together as
though into a single thing, and Charms of Unbreakability and flawless
function had been cast upon the Muggle device.

(Harry felt a lot better about doing this under adult supervision.)

A potion was thrown to Bellatrix, and Professor Quirrell and Harry both
commanded, “Drink,” as though speaking in the same voice. The emaciated
woman had already been lifting it to her lips, without waiting; for it
was evident to anyone that this snake Animagus was a servant of the Dark
Lord, and a powerful and trusted one.

Harry finished pulling the hood of the Cloak of Invisibility over his
head.

A brief and terrible magic lashed out from the Defence Professor’s wand,
scouring the hole in the wall, scarring the huge chunk of metal that lay
in the room’s midst; as Harry had requested, saying that the method he’d
used might identify him.

“Left-hand glove,” Harry said to his pouch, and drew it forth, and put
it on.

A gesture from the Defence Professor made a harness appear upon
Bellatrix’s shoulders, and another, smaller cloth device upon her hand,
and something like handcuffs on her wrists, even as the woman finished
drinking the potion.

A strange, unhealthy colour seemed to come over Bellatrix’s pale face,
she straightened, her sunken eyes seemed brighter and far more
dangerous…

…small wisps of steam were coming out of her ears…

(Harry decided not to think about that part.)

…and Bellatrix Black laughed, then, sudden mad laughter that rang much
too loudly amid the small prison cells of Azkaban.

(Very soon, the Defence Professor had said, Bellatrix would fall
unconscious and stay that way for quite awhile, the price of the potion
she had taken; but for just a few moments she would regain perhaps a
twentieth part of the power she had once wielded.)

The Defence Professor threw his wand toward Bellatrix, and an instant
later blurred into a green snake.

An instant after that the Dementors’ fear returned to the room.

Bellatrix flinched only slightly, caught the wand, and gestured without
a word; the snake flew up and was inserted into the harness on her back.

Harry said “Up!” to the broomstick.

Bellatrix attached the wand to the holster on her hand.

Harry leaped onto the two-person broomstick in the lead position.

Bellatrix followed behind him, she took the cuff-like devices on her
wrists and chained her hands to the grips of the broomstick, even as
Harry’s right hand shoved his wand into his pouch.

And the three shot forward through the hole in the wall—

—emerging into the open air, directly above the Dementors’ pit, in the
interior of the vast triangular prism that was Azkaban, the blue sky now
clearly visible above them, shining down its daylight.

Harry angled the broomstick and began accelerating, upward and toward
the centre of the triangular space. His left hand, gloved to prevent
direct contact between his skin and something which Professor Quirrell
had Transfigured, held the switch of the control on the Muggle device.

Far above them, distant shouts rang out.

All right, you primitive screwheads!

Aurors on fast racing broomsticks angled out of the sky, diving straight
down toward them, faint sparks of light already blazing downward as the
first shots were fired.

Listen up!

“Protego Maximus!” shouted Bellatrix in a mighty, cracked voice,
followed by a cackling laugh as a shimmering blue field surrounded them.

You see this?

From the decaying pit in the centre of Azkaban, over a hundred Dementors
rose into the air, appearing to some as a great mass of corpses, a
flying graveyard; appearing to another as a conglomerate of absences
that seemed to form one vast rip in the world as they slid upward.

This…

The voice of an ancient and powerful wizard bellowed a terrible
incantation, and a great blast of white-golden fire shot out of the hole
in Azkaban’s wall, shapeless for only a moment before it began to form
wings.

Is…

And the Aurors activated the Anti-Anti-Gravity Jinx that had been built
into the wards of Azkaban, disabling all flying spells whose enchantment
had not been cast with the recently changed passphrase.

The lift on Harry’s broom switched off.

Gravity, on the other hand, stayed on.

Their broom’s upward rise slowed, started to decelerate, began the
process of turning into a fall.

My…

But the enchantments that kept the broom pointed in a direction and
allowed steering, the enchantments that kept the riders attached and
somewhat protected them from acceleration, those enchantments were still
functioning.

BROOMSTICK!

Harry hit the ignition switch on the General Technics made, model
Berserker PFRC, N-class, ammonium perchlorate composite propellant,
solid-fuel rocket that had been mated to his Nimbus X200 two-person
broomstick.

And there was noise.

59. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part IX:Curiosity

BROOMSTICKS had been invented during what a Muggle would have called the
Dark Ages, supposedly by a legendary witch named Celestria Relevo,
allegedly the great-great-granddaughter of Merlin.

Celestria Relevo, or whichever person or group had really invented those
enchantments, hadn’t known a darned thing about Newtonian mechanics.

Broomsticks, therefore, worked by Aristotelian physics.

They went where you pointed them.

If you wanted to move straight forward, you pointed them straight
forward; you didn’t worry about keeping some of the thrust going
downward to cancel out the effect of gravity.

If you turned a broomstick, all of its new velocity was in the new
direction of pointing, it didn’t go sideways based on its old momentum.

Broomsticks had maximum speeds, not maximum accelerations. Not because
of anything to do with air resistance, but because a broomstick had some
maximum Aristotelian impetus its enchantments could exert.

Harry had never explicitly noticed that before, despite being dextrous
enough to get the best grades in flying class. Broomsticks worked so
much like the human mind instinctively expected them to work that his
brain had managed to entirely overlook their physical absurdity. Harry,
on his first Thursday of broomstick lessons, had been distracted by more
interesting-seeming phenomena, words written on paper and a glowing red
ball. So his brain had simply suspended its disbelief, marked the
reality of broomsticks as accepted, and proceeded to have its fun,
without ever once thinking of the question whose answer would have been
obvious. For it is a sad fact that we only ever think about a tiny
fraction of all the phenomena we encounter…

This is the story of how Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres was almost
killed by his own lack of curiosity.

Because rockets did not work by Aristotelian physics.

Rockets did not work like a human mind instinctively thought a flying
thing should work.

A rocket-assisted broomstick, therefore, did not move like the magical
broomsticks upon which Harry was such a very good flyer.

None of this actually went through Harry’s mind at the time.

For one thing, the loudest noise he’d ever heard in his life was
preventing him from hearing himself think.

For another thing, accelerating upward at four gravities meant that he
had around two and a half seconds, total, to go from the bottom to the
top of Azkaban.

And even if they were two and a half of the longest seconds in the
history of Time, that wasn’t enough room to do much thinking.

There was time only to see the lights of the Aurors’ curses arrowing
down at him, slightly angle the broomstick to avoid them, realize that
the broomstick was simply continuing on with mostly the same momentum
instead of going in the direction he pointed it, and activate the
wordless concepts

*crap*

and

*Newton*

whereupon Harry angled the broomstick much harder and then they started
to very quickly approach the wall so he angled it back the other way and
there were more lights coming down and the Dementors were sliding
smoothly up toward them along with some kind of giant winged creature of
white-golden flame so Harry wrenched the broomstick back toward the sky
but now he was still sliding toward another wall so he tilted the broom
slightly and he stopped approaching but he was too close so he tilted it
again and then the distant Aurors on their broomsticks weren’t very
distant at all and he was going to crash into that woman so he spun his
broomstick straight away from her and then in another instant he
realized his rocket was an extremely powerful flamethrower and in a
fraction of a second it would be pointing directly at the Auror so he
spun the broomstick sideways as he kept going up and he couldn’t
remember if it was pointing at any Aurors now but at least it wasn’t
pointing at her.

Harry missed another Auror by about a metre, zipping past him on a
sideways-pointed flamethrower moving upward at, Harry would later guess,
around 300 kilometres per hour.

If there were any screams of roasted Aurors he didn’t hear them, but
this was not evidence one way or another, because all that Harry was
hearing at the moment was an extremely loud noise.

A couple of calmer if not quieter seconds later, there didn’t seem to be
any Aurors around, or any Dementors, or any giant winged flame
creatures, and the vast and terrible edifice of Azkaban looked
surprisingly tiny from this height.

Harry got the broomstick pointed toward the Sun, faintly visible through
the clouds, it wasn’t high in the sky at this time of day and month of
winter, and the broomstick accelerated for another two seconds in that
direction and picked up an amazing amount of speed very quickly before
the solid-fuel rocket burned itself out.

After that, once Harry could hear himself think again, when there was
only the howling wind from their ridiculous speed, and Harry’s
enchantment-assisted fingers gripping the broomstick were merely
resisting the decelerating drag of moving way faster than terminal
velocity, that was when Harry actually thought all that stuff about
Newtonian mechanics and Aristotelian physics and broomsticks and
rocketry and the importance of curiosity and how he was never going to
do anything this Gryffindor ever again or at least not until after he
learned the Dark Lord’s secret of immortality and why had he listened to
Professor Quirinus “I asssure you, boy, I would not attempt thiss if I
did not anticipate my own ssurvival” Quirrell instead of Professor
Michael “Son, if you try anything to do with rockets on your own, I mean
anything whatsoever without a trained professional watching, you will
die and that will make Mum sad” Verres-Evans.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“WHAT?” shrieked Amelia at the mirror.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The wind had died down to a bearable level as the air resistance slowed
them, giving Harry plenty of opportunity to listen to the buzzing,
ringing sound that seemed to fill his whole brain.

Professor Quirrell had been supposed to cast a Quieting Charm on the
rocket exhaust… apparently there were limits to what Quieting Charms
could do… in retrospect, Harry should have Transfigured a pair of
earplugs, not just trusted to the Quieting Charm, though that probably
wouldn’t have been enough either…

Well, magical healing probably had something to treat permanent hearing
damage.

No, really, magical healing probably had something to treat that. He’d
seen students go to Madam Pomfrey with injuries that sounded a lot
worse…

Is there some way of transplanting an imaginary personality to someone
else’s head? asked Hufflepuff. I don’t want to live in yours any more.

Harry shoved it all into the back of his mind, there really wasn’t
anything he could do about it right now. Was there anything he should be
worrying about—

Then Harry glanced behind him, remembering for the first time to check
whether Bellatrix or Professor Quirrell had been blown off the
broomstick.

But the green snake was still in its harness, and the emaciated woman
was still clinging to the broomstick, her face still charged with
unhealthy colour and her eyes still bright and dangerous. Her shoulders
were shaking like she was laughing hysterically, and her lips were
moving as though to shout, but no sound was coming out—

Oh, right.

Harry took off the hood of his cloak, tapped his ears to let her know he
couldn’t hear.

Whereupon Bellatrix grasped her wand, pointed it at Harry, and suddenly
the ringing in his ears diminished, he could hear her.

A moment later he regretted it; the imprecations she was screaming at
Azkaban, Dementors, Aurors, Dumbledore, Lucius, Bartemy Couch, something
called the Order of the Phœnix, and all who stood in the way of her Dark
Lord, et cetera, were not suitable for younger and more sensitive
listeners; and her laughter was hurting his newly healed ears.

“Enough, Bella,” Harry finally said, and her voice stopped on the
instant.

There was a pause. Harry pulled the Cloak back over his head, just on
general principles; and realized in the same instant that they might
have telescopes down there or something, in retrospect pulling down his
hood for even a moment had been an incredibly dumb move, he hoped the
whole mission didn’t end up failing because of that one error…

We’re not really cut out for this, are we? observed Slytherin.

Hey, Hufflepuff objected in sheer reflex, we can’t expect to do anything
perfectly the first time, we probably just need more practice forget I
said that.

Harry looked back again, saw Bellatrix looking around with a puzzled,
wondering look on her face. Her head kept turning, turning.

And finally Bellatrix said, her voice now lower, “My Lord, where are
we?”

What do you mean? was what Harry wanted to say, but the Dark Lord would
never admit to not understanding anything, so Harry replied, dryly, “We
are on a broomstick.”

Does she think she’s dead, that this is Heaven?

Bellatrix’s hands were still chained to the broomstick, so it was only a
finger that came up and pointed when she said, “What is that?”

Harry followed the direction of her finger and saw… nothing in
particular, actually…

Then Harry realized. After they’d gone up high enough, there hadn’t been
any clouds to obscure it any more.

“That is the Sun, dear Bella.”

It came out remarkably controlled, the Dark Lord sounding perfectly calm
and maybe a little impatient with her, even as the tears started down
Harry’s cheeks.

In the endless cold, in the pitch blackness, the Sun would surely have
been…

A happy memory…

Bellatrix’s head kept turning.

“And the fluffy things?” she said.

“Clouds.”

There was a pause, and then Bellatrix said, “But what are they?”

Harry didn’t answer her, there was no way his voice could have been
steady, would have been steady, it was all he could do to keep his
breathing perfectly regular while he cried.

After a while, Bellatrix breathed, so softly Harry almost didn’t hear,
“Pretty…”

Her face slowly relaxed, the colour leaving its paleness almost as
quickly as it had arrived.

Her skeletal body slumped down against the broomstick.

The borrowed wand dangled lifelessly from the strap attached to her
unmoving hand.

You have got to be kidding—

Harry’s mind remembered then, the Pepper-Up potion came at a cost;
Bellatrix would ssleep for a conssiderable time, Professor Quirrell had
said.

And in the same instant another part of Harry became utterly convinced,
looking back at the chalk-white emaciated woman, seeming deader in the
bright sunlight than anything Harry had ever seen alive, that she was
dead, that she had just uttered her last word, that Professor Quirrell
had misjudged the dosage—

—or deliberately sacrificed Bellatrix to guard their own escape—

Is she breathing?

Harry couldn’t see if she was breathing.

There was no way, on the broomstick, to reach back and take her pulse.

Harry looked ahead to make sure they weren’t about to run into any
flying rocks, kept on steering the broomstick toward the Sun, the
invisible boy and the possibly dead woman riding off into the afternoon,
while his fingers gripped the wood so hard they turned white.

He couldn’t reach back and perform artificial respiration.

He couldn’t use anything from his healer’s kit.

Trust Professor Quirrell to have not endangered her?

Strange, it was strange, that even genuinely believing that Professor
Quirrell hadn’t meant to kill the Auror (for it would have been stupid),
thinking of the Defence Professor’s reassurances no longer felt
reassuring.

Then it occurred to Harry that he had yet to check—

Harry looked back, and hissed, “Teacher?”

The snake did not stir within its harness, and said no word.

…maybe the snake, not being an actual rider, hadn’t been protected from
the acceleration. Or maybe coming that close to the Dementors without a
shield, even for a moment in Animagus form, had knocked out the Defence
Professor.

That wasn’t good.

It was to have been Professor Quirrell who told Harry when it was safe
to use the portkey.

Harry steered the broomstick with whitened fingers, and thought, he
thought very hard for a small unmeasured length of time, during which
Bellatrix might or might not have been breathing, during which Professor
Quirrell himself might have already been not-breathing for a while.

And Harry decided that while it was possible to recover from the error
of wasting the portkey in his possession, it was not possible to recover
from the error of letting a brain go too long without oxygen.

So Harry took the next portkey in the sequence from his pouch, as he
slowed his broomstick to a halt in the bright-blue air (Harry didn’t
know, when he thought about it, whether a portkey’s ability to adjust
for the Earth’s rotation also included the ability to match velocity in
general with its new surroundings), touched the portkey to the
broomstick, and…

Harry paused, still holding the twig, the mate of the twig he had
snapped what seemed like two weeks ago. He was feeling a sudden
reluctance; his brain seemed to have learned the rule, by some purely
neural process of operant conditioning, that Snapping Twigs Is A Bad
Idea.

But that wasn’t actually logical, so Harry snapped the twig anyway.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was a thunderous boom from behind the nearby metal door, causing
Amelia to drop the mirror she was holding and spin around with her wand
in hand, and then that door burst open to reveal Albus Dumbledore,
standing there in front of a great smoking hole in the prison wall.

“Amelia,” said the old wizard. There was no trace of any of his
customary levity, his eyes were hard as sapphires beneath his half-moon
glasses. “I must leave Azkaban and I must do so now. Is there any faster
way than a broomstick to get beyond the wards?”

“No—”

“Then I require your fastest broomstick, at once!”

The place where Amelia wanted to be was with the Auror who had been
injured by that Fiendfyre or whatever it had been.

What she needed to do was find out what Dumbledore knew.

“You!” the old witch barked at the team around her. “Keep clearing the
corridors until you’re at bottom, they may not all have escaped yet!”
And then, to the old wizard, “Two broomsticks. You can brief me once
we’re in the air.”

There was a match of stares, but not a long one.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A sickeningly hard yank caught at Harry’s abdomen, considerably harder
than the yank that had transported him to Azkaban, and this time the
distance traversed was great enough that he could hear an instant of
silence, watch the unseeable space between spaces, in the crack between
one place and another.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Sun, which had shone on the two only briefly, was swiftly occluded
by a rain cloud as they shot away from Azkaban, in the direction of the
wind and faster than the wind.

“Who’s behind it?” shouted Amelia to the broomstick flying a pace away
from her.

“One of two people,” Dumbledore said back, “I know not, at this instant,
who. If the first, then we are in trouble. If the second, we are all in
far greater trouble.”

Amelia didn’t spare any breath for sighs. “When will you know?”

The old wizard’s voice was grim, quiet and yet somehow rising above the
wind. “Three things they need for perfection, if it is that one: the
flesh of the Dark Lord’s most faithful servant, the blood of the Dark
Lord’s greatest foe, and access to a certain grave. I had thought Harry
Potter safe, with their attempt on Azkaban all but failed—though I still
set guards upon him—but now I am fearful indeed. They have access to
Time, someone with a Time-Turner is sending messages for them; and I
suspect the kidnap attempt on Harry Potter has already taken place some
hours ago. Which is why we have not heard about it, being in Azkaban
where Time cannot knot itself. That past came after our own future, you
see.”

“And if it is the other?” shouted Amelia. What she had heard already was
worrying enough; that sounded like the darkest of Dark rituals, and
centring on the dead Dark Lord himself.

The old wizard, his face now even grimmer, said nothing, only shook his
head.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the portkey’s yank had subsided, the Sun was only just peeking over
the horizon, looking more like dawn than sunset, as their broom hovered
low above a brief expanse of dark-orange rock and sand, arranged into
lumpy hills like someone had kneaded the land’s dough a few times and
then forgotten to roll it flat. In the near distance, waves rolled past
in an endless vista of water, though the ground over which the
broomstick hovered was above sea level by metres at the least.

Harry blinked at the dawn colours, and then realized the portkey had
been international.

“Oy!” came a brisk, female shout from behind him, and Harry spun the
broomstick to look. A middle-aged lady was holding up one hand to her
mouth in a deliberate calling gesture, and bustling forward. Her kindly
features, narrow eyes, and umber skin marked a race unfamiliar to Harry;
she was clad in brilliant purple robes of a style Harry had never seen
before; and when her lips opened again she spoke with an accent that
Harry couldn’t place, for he was not widely travelled. “Where were you?
You’re two hours late! I almost gave up on the lot of you… hello?”

There was a brief pause. Harry’s thoughts seemed to be moving oddly, too
slow, everything felt distant, like there was a thick pane of glass
between himself and the world, and another thick pane of glass between
himself and his feelings, so that he could see, but not touch. It had
come over him upon seeing the dawn’s light and the kindly witch, and
thinking that it all seemed like a proper end to the adventure.

Then the witch was rushing forward and drawing her wand; a muttered word
severed the cuffs that bound the emaciated woman to the broomstick, and
Bellatrix was being floated down onto the sandy rock with her skeletal
arms and pale legs dangling like lifeless things. “Oh, Merlin,”
whispered the witch, “Merlin, Merlin, Merlin…”

She appears concerned, thought an abstract, distant thing between two
panes of glass. Is that what a real healer would say, or is it what
someone told to put on a performance would say?

As though it wasn’t Harry who spoke, but some other part of himself
behind yet another pane of glass, a whisper came from his lips. “The
green snake on her back is an Animagus.” Not high the whisper, not cold,
only quiet. “He is unconscious.”

The witch’s head twitched up, to look at where that voice had seemed to
speak out of empty air, and then looked back down at Bellatrix. “You’re
not Mister Jaffe.”

“That would be the Animagus,” whispered Harry’s lips. Oh, thought the
Harry behind glass, listening to the sound of his own lips, that makes
sense; Professor Quirrell must have used a different name.

“Since when is he a—bah, forget it.” The witch laid her wand on the
snake’s nose for a moment, then shook her head sharply. “Nothing wrong
with him that a day’s rest won’t cure. Her…”

“Can you wake him up now?” whispered Harry’s lips. Is that a good idea?
thought Harry, but his lips definitely seemed to think so.

Again the sharp head-shake. “If an Innervate didn’t work on him—” began
the witch.

“I did not attempt one,” whispered Harry’s lips.

“What? Why—oh, never mind. Innervate.”

There was a pause, and then a snake slowly crawled out of its harness.
Slowly the green head came up, looked around.

A blur later, Professor Quirrell was standing, and a moment later had
sagged to his knees.

“Lie down,” said the witch without looking up from Bellatrix. “That you
in there, Jeremy?”

“Yes,” said the Defence Professor rather hoarsely, as he carefully laid
himself down on a relatively flat patch of sandy orange rock. He was not
so pale as Bellatrix, but his face was bloodless in the dim dawn light.
“Salutations, Miss Camblebunker.”

“I told you,” said the witch, sharpness in her voice and a slight smile
on her face, “call me Crystal, this isn’t Britain and we’ll have none of
your formality here. And it’s Doctor now, not Miss.”

“My apologies, Doctor Camblebunker.” This was followed by a dry chuckle.

The witch’s smile grew a little wider, her voice that much sharper.
“Who’s your friend?”

“You don’t need to know.” The Defence Professor’s eyes were closed,
where he lay on the ground.

“How wrong did it go?”

Very dryly indeed: “You can read about it tomorrow in any newspaper with
an international section.”

The witch’s wand was tapping here, there, poking and prodding all over
Bellatrix’s body. “I missed you, Jeremy.”

“Truly?” said the Defence Professor, sounding slightly surprised.

“Not even a tiny little bit. If I didn’t owe you—”

The Defence Professor started to laugh, and then it turned into more of
a coughing fit.

What do you think? said Slytherin to the Inner Critic, while Harry
listened from behind the glass walls. Performance, or reality?

Can’t tell, said Harry’s Inner Critic. I’m not in top critical form
right now.

Can anyone think of a good probe to gather more information? said
Ravenclaw.

Again that whisper from the empty air above the broomstick: “What is the
chance of undoing all that was done to her?”

“Oh, let’s see. Legilimency and unknown Dark rituals, ten years for that
to set in place, followed by ten years of Dementor exposure? Undo that?
You’re out of your skull, Mister Whoever-You-Are. The question is
whether there’s anything left, and I’d call that maybe one chance in
three—” The witch suddenly cut herself off. Her voice, when it spoke
again, was quieter. “If you were her friend, before… then no, you’re
never getting her back. Best understand that now.”

I’m voting that this is a performance, said the Inner Critic. She
wouldn’t just blurt all that out in response to one question unless she
was looking for an opportunity.

Noted, but I’m putting a low weight of confidence on that, said
Ravenclaw. It’s very hard not to let your suspicions control your
perceptions when you’re trying to weigh evidence that subtle.

“What potion did you give her?” the witch said after opening Bellatrix’s
mouth and peering inside, her wand flashing multiple colours of
illumination.

The man lying on the ground calmly said, “Pepper-Up—”

“Were you out of your mind?”

Again the coughing laugh.

“She’ll sleep for a week if she’s lucky,” the witch said, and clucked
her tongue. “I’ll owl you when she opens her eyes, I suppose, so you can
come back and talk her into that Unbreakable Vow. Have you got anything
to stop her from killing me on the spot, if she manages to even move for
another month?”

The Defence Professor, eyes still closed, took a sheet of paper from his
robes; a moment later, words began to appear on it, accompanied by tiny
wisps of smoke. When the smoke had stopped rising, the paper floated
over toward the woman.

The woman looked over the paper with raised eyebrows, gave a sardonic
snort. “This had better work, Jeremy, or my last will and testament says
that my whole estate goes into putting a bounty on your head. Speaking
of which—”

The Defence Professor reached again into his robes and tossed the witch
a bag that made a clinking sound. The witch caught it, weighed it, made
a pleased sound.

Then she stood up, and the pale skeletal woman floated off the ground
beside her. “I’m heading back,” said the witch. “I can’t start my work
here.”

“Wait,” said the Defence Professor, and with a gesture retrieved his
wand from Bellatrix’s hand and harness. Then his hand pointed the wand
at Bellatrix, and moved in a small circular gesture, accompanied by a
quiet, “Obliviate.”

“That’s it,” snapped the witch, “I’m taking her out of here before
anyone does her any more damage—” One arm came around to hug the bony
form of Bellatrix Black to her side, and they both disappeared with the
loud POP! of Apparition.

And there was silence in that lumpy place, but for the gentle rush of
the passing waves, and a little breath of wind.

I think the performance is finished, said the Inner Critic. I give it
two and a half out of five stars. She’s probably not a very experienced
actor.

I wonder if a real healer would seem more fake than an actor told to
play one? mused Ravenclaw.

Like watching a television show, that was how it felt, like watching a
television show whose characters you didn’t particularly empathize with,
that was all that could be seen and felt from behind the glass walls.

Somehow, Harry managed to move his lips himself, send his own voice out
into the still dawn air, and then was surprised to hear his own
question. “How many different people are you, anyway?”

The pale man lying on the ground didn’t laugh, but from the broomstick
Harry’s eyes saw the sides of Professor Quirrell’s lips curling up, the
edge of that familiar sardonic smile. “I cannot say that I bothered
keeping count. How many are you?”

It shouldn’t have shaken the inner Harry so much, hearing that response,
and yet he felt—he felt—unstable, like his own centre had been
subtracted—

Oh.

“Excuse me,” said Harry’s voice. It now sounded as distant and detached
as the fading Harry felt. “I’m going to faint in a few seconds, I
think.”

“Use the fourth portkey I gave you, the one I said was our fallback
refuge,” said the man lying on the ground, calmly but swiftly. “It will
be safer there. And continue wearing your cloak.”

Harry’s free hand retrieved another twig from his pouch and snapped it.

There was another portkey yank, internationally long, and then he was
somewhere black.

“Lumos,” said Harry’s lips, some part of him looking out for the safety
of the whole.

He was inside what looked like a Muggle warehouse, a deserted one.

Harry’s legs climbed off the broomstick, lay on the floor. His eyes
closed, and some tiny fraction of self willed his light to fail, before
the darkness took him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Where will you go?” yelled Amelia. They were almost at the edge of the
wards.

“Backward in time to protect Harry Potter,” said the old wizard, and
before Amelia could even open her lips to ask if he wanted help, she
felt the boundary of the wards as they crossed them.

There was a pop of Apparition, and the wizard and the phœnix vanished,
leaving behind the borrowed broomstick.

60. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part X

“WAKE.”

Harry’s eyes flew open as he came awake with a choking gasp, a jerking
start of his prone body. He couldn’t remember any dreams, maybe his
brain had been too exhausted to dream, it seemed like he’d only closed
his eyes and then heard that word spoken a moment after.

“You must awaken,” said the voice of Quirinus Quirrell. “I gave you as
much time as I could, but it would be wise to reserve at least one use
of your Time-Turner. Soon we must go backward four hours to Mary’s
Place, appearing in every way as though we have done nothing interesting
this day. I wished to speak to you before then.”

Harry slowly sat up in the midst of darkness. His body ached, and not
only in the places where it had laid on the hard concrete. Images
tumbled over each other in his memory, everything his unconscious brain
had been too tired to discharge into a proper nightmare.

Twelve terrible voids floating down a metal corridor, tarnishing the
metal around them, light dimmed and temperature falling as the emptiness
tried to suck all life out of the world—

Chalk-white skin, stretched just above the bone that had remained after
fat and muscle faded—

A metal door—

A woman’s voice—

No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die—

I can’t remember my children’s names any more—

Don’t go, don’t take it away, don’t don’t don’t—

“What was that place?” Harry said hoarsely, in a voice pushed out of his
throat like water forced through a too-thin pipe, in the darkness it
sounded almost as shattered as Bellatrix Black’s voice had been. “What
was that place? That wasn’t a prison, that was Hell!”

“Hell?” said the calm voice of the Defence Professor. “You mean the
Christian punishment fantasy? I suppose there is a similarity.”

“How—” Harry’s voice was blocking, there was something huge lodged in
his throat. “How—how could they—” People had built that place, someone
had made Azkaban, they’d made it on purpose, they’d done it
deliberately, that woman, she’d had children, children she wouldn’t
remember, some judge had decided for that to happen to her, someone had
needed to drag her into that cell and lock its door while she screamed,
someone fed her every day and walked away without letting her out—

“HOW COULD PEOPLE DO THAT?”

“Why shouldn’t they?” said the Defence Professor. A pale blue light lit
the warehouse, then, showing a high, cavernous concrete ceiling, and a
dusty concrete floor; and Professor Quirrell sitting some distance away
from Harry, leaning his back against a painted wall; the pale blue light
turned the walls to glacier surfaces, the dust on the floor to speckled
snow, and the man himself had become an ice sculpture, shrouded in
darkness where his black robes lay over him. “What use are the prisoners
of Azkaban to them?”

Harry’s mouth opened in a croak. No words exited.

A faint smile twitched on the Defence Professor’s lips. “You know,
Mr Potter, if He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named had come to rule over magical
Britain, and built such a place as Azkaban, he would have built it
because he enjoyed seeing his enemies suffer. And if instead he began to
find their suffering distasteful, why, he would order Azkaban torn down
the next day. As for those who did make Azkaban, and those who do not
tear it down, while preaching lofty sermons and imagining themselves not
to be villains… well, Mr Potter, I think if I had my choice of taking
tea with them, or taking tea with You-Know-Who, I should find my
sensibilities less offended by the Dark Lord.”

“I don’t understand,” Harry said, his voice was shaking, he’d read about
the classic experiment on the psychology of prisons, the ordinary
college students who had turned sadistic as soon as they were assigned
the role of prison guards; only now he realized that the experiment
hadn’t examined the right question, the one most important question,
they hadn’t looked at the key people, not the prison guards but everyone
else, “I really don’t understand, Professor Quirrell, how can people
just stand by and let this happen, why is the country of magical Britain
doing this—” Harry’s voice stopped.

The Defence Professor’s eyes appeared to be the same colour as always,
in the pale blue light, for that light was the same colour as Quirinus
Quirrell’s irises, those never-thawing chips of ice. “Welcome,
Mr Potter, to your first encounter with the realities of politics. What
do the wretched creatures in Azkaban have to offer any faction? Who
would benefit from aiding them? A politician who openly sided with them
would associate themselves with criminals, with weakness, with
distasteful things that people would rather not think about.
Alternatively, the politician could demonstrate their might and cruelty
by calling for longer sentences; to make a display of strength requires
a victim to crush beneath you, after all. And the populace applauds, for
it is their instinct to back the winner.” A coldly amused laugh. “You
see, Mr Potter, no-one ever quite believes that they will go to Azkaban,
so they see no harm in it for themselves. As for what they inflict on
others… I suppose you were once told that people care about that sort of
thing? It is a lie, Mr Potter, people don’t care in the slightest, and
if you had not led a vastly sheltered childhood you would have noticed
that long ago. Console yourself with this: those now prisoner in Azkaban
voted for the same Ministers of Magic who pledged to move their cells
closer to the Dementors. I admit, Mr Potter, that I see little hope for
democracy as an effective form of government, but I admire the poetry of
how it makes its victims complicit in their own destruction.”

Harry’s recently cohered self was threatening to shatter into fragments
again, the words falling like hammer strikes on his consciousness,
driving him back, step by step, over the precipice where lurked some
vast abyss; and he was trying to find something to save himself, some
clever retort that would refute the words, but it did not come.

The Defence Professor watched Harry, the gaze reflecting more curiosity
than command. “It is very simple, Mr Potter, to understand how Azkaban
was built, and how it continues to be. Men care for what they,
themselves, expect to suffer or gain; and so long as they do not expect
it to redound upon themselves, their cruelty and carelessness is without
limit. All the other wizards of this country are no different within
than he who sought to rule over them, You-Know-Who; they only lack his
power and his… frankness.”

The boy’s hands were clenched into fists so tightly that the nails cut
into his palm, if his fingers were white or his face was pale you
couldn’t have seen that, for the dim blue light cast all into ice or
shadow. “You once offered to support me if my ambition were to be the
next Dark Lord. Is that why, Professor?”

The Defence Professor inclined his head, a thin smile on his lips.
“Learn all that I have to teach you, Mr Potter, and you will rule this
country in time. Then you may tear down the prison that democracy made,
if you find that Azkaban still offends your sensibilities. Like it or
not, Mr Potter, you have seen this day that your own will conflicts with
the will of this country’s populace, and that you do not bow your head
and submit to their decision when that occurs. So to them, whether or
not they know it, and whether or not you acknowledge it, you are their
next Dark Lord.”

In the monochromatic light, unwavering, the boy and the Defence
Professor both seemed like motionless ice sculptures, the irises of
their eyes reduced to similar colours, looking very much the same in
that light.

Harry stared directly into those pale eyes. All the long-suppressed
questions, the ones he’d told himself he was putting on hold until the
Ides of May. That had been a lie, Harry now knew, a self-deception, he
had kept silent for fear of what he might hear. And now everything was
coming forth from his lips, all at once. “On our first day of class, you
tried to convince my classmates I was a killer.”

“You are.” Amusedly. “But if your question is why I told them that,
Mr Potter, the answer is that you will find ambiguity a great ally on
your road to power. Give a sign of Slytherin on one day, and contradict
it with a sign of Gryffindor the next; and the Slytherins will be
enabled to believe what they wish, while the Gryffindors argue
themselves into supporting you as well. So long as there is uncertainty,
people can believe whatever seems to be to their own advantage. And so
long as you appear strong, so long as you appear to be winning, their
instincts will tell them that their advantage lies with you. Walk always
in the shadow, and light and darkness both will follow.”

“And,” said the boy, his voice level, “just what do you want out of all
this?”

Professor Quirrell had leaned further back against the wall from where
he sat, casting his face into shadow, his eyes changing from pale ice
into dark pits like those of his snake form. “I wish for Britain to grow
strong under a strong leader; that is my desire. As for my reasons why,”
Professor Quirrell smiled without mirth, “I think they shall stay my
own.”

“The sense of doom that I feel around you.” The words were becoming
harder and harder to say, as the subject danced closer and closer to
something terrible and forbidden. “You always knew what it meant.”

“I had several guesses,” said Professor Quirrell, his expression
unreadable. “And I will not yet say all I guessed. But this much I will
tell you: it is your doom which flares when we come near, not mine.”

For once Harry’s brain managed to mark this as a questionable assertion
and possible lie, instead of believing everything it heard. “Why do you
sometimes turn into a zombie?”

“Personal reasons,” said Professor Quirrell with no humour at all in his
voice.

“What was your ulterior motive for rescuing Bellatrix?”

There was a brief silence, during which Harry tried hard to control his
breathing, keep it steady.

Finally the Defence Professor shrugged, as though it were of no account.
“I all but spelled it out for you, Mr Potter. I told you everything you
needed to deduce the answer, if you had been mature enough to consider
that first obvious question. Bellatrix Black was the Dark Lord’s most
powerful servant, her loyalty the most assured; she was the single
person most likely to be entrusted with some part of the lost lore of
Slytherin that should have been yours.”

Slowly the anger crept over Harry, slowly the wrath, something terrible
beginning to boil his blood, in just a few moments he would say
something that he really shouldn’t say while the two of them were alone
in a deserted warehouse—

“But she was innocent,” said the Defence Professor. He was not smiling.
“And the degree to which all her choices were taken away from her, so
that she never had a chance to suffer for her own mistakes… it struck me
as excessive, Mr Potter. If she tells you nothing of use—” The Defence
Professor gave another small shrug. “I shall not consider this day’s
work a waste.”

“How altruistic of you,” Harry said coldly. “So if all wizards are like
You-Know-Who inside, are you an exception to that, then?”

The Defence Professor’s eyes were still in shadow, dark pits that could
not be met. “Call it a whim, Mr Potter. It has sometimes amused me to
play the part of a hero. Who knows but that You-Know-Who would say the
same.”

Harry opened his mouth a final time—

And found that he couldn’t say it, he couldn’t ask the last question,
the last and most important question, he couldn’t make the words come
out. Even though a refusal like that was forbidden to a rationalist, for
all that he’d ever recited the Litany of Tarski or the Litany of Gendlin
or sworn that whatever could be destroyed by the truth should be, in
that one moment, he could not bring himself to say his last question out
loud. Even though he knew he was thinking wrongly, even though he knew
he was supposed to be better than this, he still couldn’t say it.

“Now it is my turn to inquire of you.” Professor Quirrell’s back
straightened from where it had leaned back against the glacier wall of
painted concrete. “I was wondering, Mr Potter, if you had anything to
say about nearly killing me and ruining our mutual endeavour. I am given
to understand that an apology, in such cases, is considered a sign of
respect. But you have not offered me one. Is it just that you have not
yet got around to it, Mr Potter?”

The tone was calm, the quiet edge so fine and sharp that it would slice
all the way through you before you realized you were being murdered.

And Harry just looked at the Defence Professor with cool eyes that would
never flinch from anything; not even death, now. He was no longer in
Azkaban, no longer fearful of the part of himself that was fearless; and
the solid gemstone that was Harry had rotated to meet the stress,
turning smoothly from one facet to another, from light to darkness, warm
to cold.

A calculated ploy on his part, to make me feel guilty, put me in a
position where I must submit?

Genuine emotion on his part?

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell. “I suppose that answers—”

“No,” said the boy in a cool, collected voice, “you do not get to frame
the conversation that easily, Professor. I went to considerable lengths
to protect you and get you out of Azkaban safely, after I thought you
had tried to kill a police officer. That included facing down twelve
Dementors without a Patronus Charm. I wonder, if I had apologized when
you demanded it, would you have said ‘thank you’ in turn? Or am I
correct in thinking that it was my submission you demanded there, and
not only my respect?”

There was a pause, and then Professor Quirrell’s voice came in reply,
openly icy with danger no longer veiled. “It seems you still cannot
bring yourself to lose, Mr Potter.”

Darkness stared out of Harry’s eyes without flinching, the Defence
Professor himself reduced to a mortal thing within them. “Oh, and are
you pondering now, whether you should pretend to lose to me, and pretend
to humble yourself before my own anger, in order to preserve your own
plans? Did the thought of a calculated false apology even cross your
mind? Me neither, Professor Quirrell.”

The Defence Professor laughed, low and humourless, emptier than the void
between the stars, dangerous as any vacuum filled with hard radiation.
“No, Mr Potter, you have not learned your lesson, not at all.”

“I thought of losing many times, in Azkaban,” said the boy, his voice
level. “That I ought to simply give up, and turn myself over to the
Aurors. Losing would have been the sensible thing to do. I heard your
voice saying it to me, in my mind; and I would have done it, if I had
been there by myself. But I could not bring myself to lose you.”

There was silence, then, for a time; as though even the Defence
Professor could not quite think of what to say to that.

“I am curious,” said Professor Quirrell at last. “What do you think that
I should apologize for, precisely? I gave you explicit instructions in
the event of a fight. You were to stay down, stay out of the way, cast
no magic. You violated those instructions and brought down the mission.”

“I made no decision,” the boy said evenly, “there was no choice in it,
only a wish that the Auror should not die, and my Patronus was there.
For that wish to have never occurred, you should have warned me that you
might bluff using a Killing Curse. By default, I assume that if you
point your wand at someone and say Avada Kedavra, it is because you want
them dead. Shouldn’t that be the first rule of Unforgivable Curse
Safety?”

“Rules are for duels,” said the Defence Professor. Some of the coldness
had returned to his voice. “And duelling is a sport, not a branch of
Battle Magic. In a real fight, a curse which cannot be blocked and must
be dodged is an indispensable tactic. I would have thought this obvious
to you, but it seems I misjudged your intellect.”

“It also seems to me imprudent,” said the boy, continuing as though the
other had not spoken, “to not tell me that my casting any spell on you
might kill us both. What if you had suffered some mishap, and I had
tried an Innervate, or a Hover Charm? That ignorance, which you
permitted for purposes I cannot guess, played also some part in this
catastrophe.”

There was another silence. The Defence Professor’s eyes had narrowed,
and there was a faintly puzzled look on his face, as though he had
encountered some completely unfamiliar situation; and still the man
spoke no word.

“Well,” said the boy. His eyes had not wavered from the Defence
Professor’s. “I certainly regret hurting you, Professor. But I do not
think the situation calls for me to submit to you. I never really did
understand the concept of apology, still less as it applies to a
situation like this; if you have my regrets, but not my submission, does
that count as saying sorry?”

Again that cold, cold laugh, darker than the void between the stars.

“I wouldn’t know,” said the Defence Professor, “I, too, never understood
the concept of apology. That ploy would be futile between us, it seems,
with both of us knowing it for a lie. Let us speak no more of it, then.
Debts will be settled between us in time.”

There was silence for a time.

“By the way,” said the boy. “Hermione Granger would never have built
Azkaban, no matter who was going to be put in it. And she’d die before
she hurt an innocent. Just mentioning that, since you said before that
all wizards are like You-Know-Who inside, and that’s just false as a
point of simple fact. Would’ve realized it earlier if I hadn’t been,”
the boy gave a brief grim smile, “stressed out.”

The Defence Professor’s eyes were half-lidded, his expression distant.
“People’s insides are not always like their outsides, Mr Potter. Perhaps
she simply wishes others to think of her as a good girl. She cannot use
the Patronus Charm—”

“Hah,” said the boy; his smile seemed realer now, warmer. “She’s having
trouble for exactly the same reason I did. There’s enough light in her
to destroy Dementors, I’m sure. She wouldn’t be able to stop herself
from destroying Dementors, even at the cost of her own life…” The boy
trailed off, and then his voice resumed. “I might not be such a good
person, maybe; but they do exist, and she’s one of them.”

Dryly. “She is young, and to make a show of kindness costs her little.”

There was a pause at this. Then the boy said, “Professor, I have to ask,
when you see something all dark and gloomy, doesn’t it ever occur to you
to try and improve it somehow? Like, yes, something goes terribly wrong
in people’s heads that makes them think it’s great to torture criminals,
but that doesn’t mean they’re truly evil inside; and maybe if you taught
them the right things, showed them what they were doing wrong, you could
change—”

Professor Quirrell laughed, then, and not with the emptiness of before.
“Ah, Mr Potter, sometimes I do forget how very young you are. Sooner you
could change the colour of the sky.” Another chuckle, this one colder.
“And the reason it is easy for you to forgive such fools and think well
of them, Mr Potter, is that you yourself have not been sorely hurt. You
will think less fondly of commonplace idiots after the first time their
folly costs you something dear. Such as a hundred Galleons from your own
pocket, perhaps, rather than the agonizing deaths of a hundred
strangers.” The Defence Professor was smiling thinly. He took a pocket
watch out of his robes, looked at it. “Let us depart now, if there is
nothing more to say between us.”

“You don’t have any questions about the impossible things I did to get
us out of Azkaban?”

“No,” said the Defence Professor. “I believe I have solved most of them
already. As for the rest, it is too rare that I find a person whom I
cannot see through immediately, be they friend or foe. I shall unravel
the puzzles about you for myself, in due time.”

The Defence Professor shoved himself up, pushing back on the wall with
both hands and rising to his feet, smoothly if too slowly. The boy, less
gracefully, did the same.

And the boy blurted out the last most terrible question which he had
earlier been unable to ask; as though to say it aloud would make it
real, and as though it were not, already, vastly obvious.

“Why am I not like the other children my own age?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In a deserted side-road of Diagon Alley, where scraps of un-Vanished
trash could be seen lodged into the edges of the brick street and the
blank brick building-sides that surrounded it, along with scattered dirt
and other signs of neglect, an ancient wizard and his phœnix Apparated
into existence.

The wizard was already reaching within his robes for his hourglass when,
in habit, his eyes jumped to a random spot between the road and the
wall, to memorize it—

And the old wizard blinked in surprise; there was a scrap of parchment
in that spot.

A frown crossed Albus Dumbledore’s face as he took a step forward and
took the crumpled scrap, unfolding it.

On it was the single word “NO”, and nothing more.

Slowly the wizard let it flutter from his fingers. Absently he reached
down to the pavement, and picked up the nearest scrap of parchment,
which looked remarkably similar to the one he had just taken; he touched
it with his wand, and a moment later it was inscribed with the same word
“NO”, in the same handwriting, which was his own.

The old wizard had planned to go back three hours to when Harry Potter
first arrived in Diagon Alley. He had already watched, upon his
instruments, the boy leaving Hogwarts, and that could not be undone (his
one attempt to fool his own instruments, and so control Time without
altering its appearance to himself, had ended in sufficient disaster to
convince him to never again try such trickery). He had hoped to retrieve
the boy at the first possible moment after his arrival, and take him to
another safe location, if not Hogwarts (for his instruments had not
shown the boy’s return). But now—

“A paradox if I retrieve him immediately after he arrives in Diagon
Alley?” murmured the old wizard to himself. “Perhaps they did not set in
motion their plan to break into Azkaban until after they had confirmed
his arrival here… or else… perhaps…”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Painted concrete, hard floor and distant ceilings, two figures facing
off across from each other. One entity who wore the shape of a man in
his late thirties and already balding, and another mind that wore the
form of an eleven-year-old boy with a scar upon his forehead. Ice and
shadow, pale blue light.

“I don’t know,” said the man.

The boy just looked at him. And then said, “Oh, really?”

“Truly,” said the man. “I know nothing, and of my guesses I will not
speak. Yet I will say this much—”

61. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Part XI:Secrecy and Openness

THROUGH green flame they whirled, through the Floo network they spun,
Minerva’s heart racing with a pounding horror that she hadn’t felt in
ten years and three months, the corridors between space coughed and spit
them out into the lobby of Gringotts (the safest Floo receiver in Diagon
Alley, the connection most difficult to intercept, the fastest way out
of Hogwarts without a phœnix). A goblin attendant turned toward them,
his eyes widened, he began a slightly respectful bow—

Determination, Destination, Deliberation!

And the two of them were in the alley just behind Mary’s Place, wands
already out and raised, spinning around back-to-back and the words of an
Anti-Disillusionment Charm already rising to Severus’s lips.

The alley was empty.

When she turned back to look at Severus, his wand was already cracking
down on his own head with a sound like smashing an egg, as his lips
chanted words of invisibility; he took on the colours of his
surroundings, became a blur of his surroundings, the blur moved and
matched what was behind him and then there was nothing there.

She lowered her wand and stepped forward to receive her own
Disillusionment—

From behind her, the unmistakable sound of a burst of flame.

She spun and saw Albus there, his long wand already drawn and raised in
his right hand. His eyes were grim beneath the half-circles of his
glasses, and Fawkes upon his shoulder had spread his fire-coloured wings
in readiness for flight and fight.

“Albus!” she said. “I thought—” She’d just seen him depart for Azkaban,
and she’d thought not even phœnixes could return from there so easily.

Then she realized.

“She escaped,” said Albus. “Did your Patronus reach him?”

The pounding in her heart grew stronger, the horror in her veins
solidified. “He said he was here, in the toilets—”

“Let us hope he spoke true,” said Albus, the wand tapped her head with a
sensation like water trickling over her, and a moment later the four of
them (even Fawkes had been rendered invisible, though sometimes you saw
a flicker of something like fire in his air) were racing to the front of
the restaurant. They paused before the door while Albus whispered
something, and a moment later one of the customers visible through the
windows stood up with a vague look on his face and opened the door as
though taking a quick look outside for some friend; and the three of
them were through, racing past the unwitting customers (Severus was
marking their faces, Minerva knew, and Albus would see any
Disillusioned) toward the sign that pointed to the toilets—

An old wooden door marked with the sign of a toilet burst open with a
slam, and four invisible rescuers stormed through it.

The small but clean wooden room was empty, fresh droplets of water
showed in the sink but there was no sign of Harry, only a sheet of paper
left on the closed lid of the toilet.

She couldn’t breathe.

The sheet of paper rose up into the air as Albus took it, and a moment
later was thrust in her own direction.

M: What did the hat tell me to tell you?

—H

“Ah,” Minerva said aloud in surprise, her mind taking a moment to place
the question, it wasn’t the sort of thing you’d forget but she hadn’t
been thinking in that mode, really—“I’m an impudent youngster and I
should get off its lawn.”

“Eh?” said the air in Albus’s voice, as if even he could be shocked.

And then Harry Potter’s head appeared, suspended next to the air beside
the toilet, his face was cold and alert, the too-adult Harry she’d seen
sometimes, eyes darting back and forth and around.

“What’s going on—” the boy began.

Albus, now visible once more along with her and Fawkes, was moving
forward in an instant, his left hand reached forward and plucked a hair
from Harry’s head (producing a startled yelp from the boy), Minerva
accepted the hair in her own hand, and a moment later Albus swept up the
mostly-invisible boy in his arms and there was a flash of red-golden
fire.

And Harry Potter was safe.

Minerva took a few steps forward, leaned against the wall where Albus
and Harry had been, trying to recover her poise.

She’d… lost some habits, in the ten years since the Order of the Phœnix
had disbanded.

Beside her, Severus shimmered into visibility. His right hand was
already drawing forth the flask from his robes, his left hand already
stretching forth in demand. She gave him Harry’s hair, and a moment
later, it dropped into the flask of unfinished Polyjuice, which at once
began fizzing and bubbling as it settled into the potency that would
enable Severus to act his part as bait.

“That was unexpected,” the Potions Master said slowly. “Why did our
Headmaster not retrieve Mr Potter earlier, I wonder, if he was going so
far as to twist Time? There should have been nothing preventing him from
doing so… indeed, your Patronus should have found Mr Potter already
safe…”

She hadn’t thought of that, a different realization having jumped to the
forefront of her mind. It wasn’t nearly as horrifying as Bellatrix Black
having escaped from Azkaban, but still—

“Harry has an invisibility cloak?” she said.

The Potions Master did not answer; he was shrinking.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tick-snick, drip-blip, ding-ring-ting-

It still annoyed her, though it faded past attention after a while; and
when and if she became Headmistress, she intended to Silence the whole
lot. Which Head of Hogwarts, she wondered, had first been so
inconsiderate as to create a device that made noise, to pass on to their
successors?

She was sitting in the Headmaster’s office with a quickly Transfigured
desk of her own, doing some of the hundred little pieces of necessary
paperwork that kept Hogwarts from grinding to a halt; she could lose
herself in it easily, and it prevented her from thinking about other
things. Albus had once remarked, sounding rather wry, that Hogwarts
seemed to run even more smoothly when there was an outside crisis for
her to avoid thinking about…

…ten years ago, that was the last time Albus had said that.

There was the chime that indicated an approaching visitor.

Minerva kept reading her current parchment.

The door slammed open, revealing Severus Snape, who took three steps
inward and demanded without the slightest pause, “Any word from
Mad-Eye?”

Albus was already rising from his chair, even as she tucked away her
parchments and dispelled the desk. “Moody’s Patronus is reporting to the
me in Azkaban,” Albus said. “His Eye saw nothing; and if the Eye of
Vance does not see a thing, then that thing does not exist. Yourself?”

“No-one has tried to forcibly take my blood,” Severus said. He gave a
quick grimace of a smile. “Except the Defence Professor.”

“What?” said Minerva.

“He saw me for an impostor before I could even open my lips, and quite
reasonably attacked me on the spot, demanding to know the whereabouts of
Mr Potter.” Another grimace of a smile. “Shouting that I was Severus
Snape did not seem to reassure him, for some reason. I do believe that
man would kill me for a Sickle and give back five Knuts change. I had to
stun our good Professor Quirrell, which was not easy, and then he
reacted poorly to the hex. ‘Harry Potter’, naturally alarmed, ran out
and told the owner, and the Defence Professor was taken to St. Mungo’s—”

“St. Mungo’s?”

“—which said he had probably been overworking himself for weeks before
he collapsed, such was his state of exhaustion. Your precious Defence
Professor is fine, Minerva, the stunner may have helped him by forcing
him to take a few days off. Afterwards I declined the offer of a Floo to
Hogwarts, and went back to Diagon Alley and wandered; but no-one seems
to have wanted Mr Potter’s blood today.”

“Our Defence Professor is in the best of hands, I am sure,” said Albus.
“Greater matters command our attention, Minerva.”

It took considerable effort for her to wrench her attention back, but
she sat back down, and Severus gestured up a chair for himself as well,
and the three of them drew together to begin their council.

She felt like a Polyjuiced impostor, sitting with those two. War was not
her art, nor plotting. She had to strain to keep one step ahead of the
Weasley twins, and sometimes she failed at that. She was sitting here,
ultimately, only because she had heard the prophecy…

“We are faced,” the Headmaster spoke first, “with a rather alarming
mystery. I can think of only two wizards who might have engineered this
escape.”

Minerva drew in her breath sharply. “There is a chance it is not
You-Know-Who?”

“I’m afraid so,” said the Headmaster.

She glanced to her side and saw that Severus looked as puzzled as
herself. Afraid the Dark Lord was not rising again? She would have given
almost anything for that to be true.

“So,” Albus said heavily. “Our first suspect is Voldemort, risen again
and seeking to resurrect himself. I have studied many books I wish I had
not read, seeking his every possible avenue of return, and I have found
only three. His strongest road to life is the Philosopher’s Stone, which
Flamel assures me that not even Voldemort could create on his own; by
that road he would rise greater and more terrible than ever before. I
would not have thought Voldemort able to resist the temptation of the
Stone, still less because such an obvious trap is a challenge to his
wit. But his second avenue is nearly as strong: the flesh of his
servant, willingly given; the blood of his foe, forcibly taken; and the
bone of his ancestor, unknowingly bequeathed. Voldemort is a
perfectionist—” Albus glanced at Severus, who nodded agreement, “—and he
would certainly seek the most powerful combination: the flesh of
Bellatrix Black, the blood of Harry Potter, and the bone of his father.
Voldemort’s final avenue is to seduce a victim and drain the life from
them over a long period; in which case Voldemort would be weak compared
to his former power. His motive to spirit away Bellatrix is clear. And
if he is keeping her in reserve, to use only in case he cannot attain
the Stone, that would explain why no kidnap attempt was made on Harry
this day.”

Minerva glanced again at Severus, saw him listening attentively but
without surprise.

“What is not clear,” the Headmaster continued, “is how Voldemort could
have engineered this escape. A death doll was left in Bellatrix’s place,
her escape was meant to be undetected; and even though that went wrong,
the Dementors could not find her after their first warning. Azkaban has
stood impenetrable for centuries, and I cannot imagine any means by
which Voldemort could have accomplished this.”

“That may mean little,” Severus said, expressionless. “For the Dark Lord
to do what we cannot imagine requires only that he has a better
imagination.”

Albus nodded grimly. “Unfortunately there is now another wizard who
laughs at impossibilities. A wizard who, not long ago, developed a new
and powerful Charm which could have blinded the Dementors to Bellatrix
Black’s escape. And he is implicated for other reasons, as well.”

Minerva’s heart was skipping beats, she didn’t know how, or why, but a
terrible apprehension was dawning on her as to who—

“Who would that be?” said Severus, sounding puzzled.

Albus leaned back and said the fatal words, even as she had feared them:
“Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.”

“Potter?” demanded the Potions Master, as much shock in that
usually-silken voice as she had ever heard from him. “Headmaster, is
this one of your jokes? He is in his first year at Hogwarts! A temper
tantrum and a few childish pranks with an invisibility cloak does not
make him—”

“It is no joke,” said Minerva, her voice barely above a whisper. “Harry
is already making original discoveries in Transfiguration, Severus.
Though I did not know he was researching Charms as well.”

“Harry is no ordinary first-year,” the Headmaster said solemnly. “He is
marked as the Dark Lord’s equal, and he has power the Dark Lord knows
not.”

Severus was looking at her, and you would have needed to know him well
to recognize that his glance was pleading. “Am I to take this
seriously?”

Minerva simply nodded.

“Does anyone else know of this… new and powerful Charm?” Severus
demanded.

The Headmaster glanced at her apologetically—

Somehow she knew, she knew before he even said it, and she wanted to
scream at the top of her lungs.

—and said, “Quirinus Quirrell.”

“Why,” she said, in a voice that should have melted half the devices in
the office, “did Mr Potter even tell our Defence Professor about his
brilliant new Charm for breaking out of prisons—”

The Headmaster passed a weary wrinkled hand across his equally wrinkled
forehead. “Quirinus just happened to be there, Minerva. Even I saw no
harm in it at the time.” The Headmaster hesitated. “And Harry said his
Charm was too dangerous to be explained to either of us; and when I
asked him again, this day, he insisted he had still not explained it to
Quirinus, nor had he ever dropped his Occlumency barriers in the Defence
Professor’s presence—”

“Mr Potter is an Occlumens? You gave him an invisibility cloak and he is
immune to Veritaserum and he is friends with the Weasley twins? Albus,
do you have any idea what you have unleashed upon this school?” Her
voice was nearly shrieking, now. “By his seventh year there won’t be
anything left of Hogwarts but a smoking hole in the ground!”

Albus leaned back in his great cushioned chair, and said, smiling,
“Don’t forget the Time-Turner.”

She did scream then, but quietly.

Severus drawled, “Should I teach him to brew Polyjuice, Headmaster? I
ask only for the sake of completeness, in case you are not satisfied
with the magnitude of your pet disaster.”

“Perhaps next year,” said Albus. “My dearest friends, the question
before us is whether Harry Potter has spirited Bellatrix Black out of
Azkaban, which is more than youthful high spirits even by my tolerant
standards.”

“Excuse me, Headmaster,” Severus said with one of the dryer smiles she
had ever seen him deliver to Albus, “but I will register my opinion that
the answer is no. This is the Dark Lord’s work, pure and simple.”

“Then why,” Albus said, and now there was no humour at all in his voice,
“when I planned to retrieve Harry immediately after his arrival in
Diagon Alley, did I find that this would result in paradox?”

Minerva sank further back into her chair, dropped her left elbow onto
the hard uncushioned armrest, leaned her head into her hand, and shut
her eyes in despair.

There was a narrowly circulated proverb to the effect that only one
Auror in thirty was qualified to investigate cases involving
Time-Turners; and that of those few, the half who weren’t already
insane, soon would be.

“So you suspect,” Severus’s voice was saying, “that Potter went from
Diagon Alley to Azkaban, then looped back to Diagon Alley afterwards to
be picked up by us—”

“Precisely,” said Albus’s voice. “Though it is also possible that
Voldemort or his servants watched to make sure Harry did arrive in
Diagon Alley, before they began their attempt on Azkaban. And that they
had someone with a Time-Turner who would send back the message of their
success, to trigger the abduction. Indeed, it was my suspicion of this
possibility that caused me to dispatch you and Minerva on your own
mission, before I myself went to Azkaban. I thought then that their
breakout would fail, but if retrieving Harry Potter meant observing the
fact of their eventual failure, then I myself could not have gone to
Azkaban after I had interacted with him, for Azkaban’s future cannot
touch its past. When, in Azkaban, I received no report from you or
Minerva, nor from Flitwick whom I told to try contacting you, I knew
that your interaction with Harry Potter had been an interaction with
Azkaban’s future, meaning that someone was sending messages through
Time—”

Then Albus’s voice stopped.

“But Headmaster,” said Severus, “you came back from Azkaban’s future and
interacted with us…”

The Potions Master’s voice trailed off.

“But Severus, if I had received reports from you and Minerva of Harry’s
safety, I would not, in the first place, have gone backward in time to—”

“Headmaster, I think we must draw diagrams for this.”

“I agree, Severus.”

There was the sound of parchment being spread on a table, and then
quills scratching, and more arguing.

Minerva sat in her chair, head resting in her hand, eyes shut.

There was a story she’d once heard about a criminal who had possessed a
Time-Turner which the Department of Mysteries had sealed to him, in a
case of extremely bad judgement as to who needed one; and there had been
an Auror assigned to track down this unknown time-criminal, who had also
been given a Time-Turner; and the story ended with both of them in St.
Mungo’s ward for Total Unrecoverable Nutcases.

Minerva sat there with her eyes shut, trying not to listen, trying not
to think about it, and trying not to go insane.

After awhile, when the argument seemed to have wound down, she said
aloud, “Mr Potter’s Time-Turner is restricted to the hours of nine  p.m.
through midnight. Was the shell tampered with, Albus?”

“Not to my most discerning Charms,” said Albus. “But the shells are new
things; and to defeat the Unspeakables’ precautions and leave no trace
of the defeat… might not be impossible.”

She opened her eyes, and saw Severus and the Headmaster staring intently
at a parchment covered with tangled squiggles that would have no doubt
driven her mad to comprehend.

“Have you come to any conclusions?” Minerva said. “And please don’t tell
me how you arrived at them.”

Severus and the Headmaster looked at each other, then turned to look at
her.

“We have concluded,” the Headmaster said gravely, “that either Harry was
involved or he was not; that either Voldemort has access to a
Time-Turner or he does not; and that regardless of what could have
happened within Azkaban, nobody would have visited the Little Hangleton
graveyard during the period Moody has already watched over it within my
own past.”

“In short,” Severus drawled, “we know nothing, dear Minerva; though it
seems at least likely that another Time-Turner was involved, somehow. My
own suspicion is that Potter has been bribed, tricked, or threatened
into conveying messages backward in time, perhaps even regarding this
very prison break. I shall not make the obvious suggestion as to who is
pulling his strings. But I suggest that at nine o’clock tonight, we test
whether Potter is able to travel the full six hours backward to three
o’clock, to see if he has yet used his Time-Turner.”

“That seems wise to do in any case,” said Dumbledore. “See that done,
Minerva, and tell Harry to stop in my office at his convenience,
afterwards.”

“But you still suspect Harry of direct involvement in the prison break
itself?” Minerva said.

“Possible but unlikely,” said Severus, at the same time Albus said,
“Yes.”

Minerva pinched the bridge of her nose, took a deep breath, let it out.
“Albus, Severus, what possible reason has Mr Potter to do such a thing!”

“None that I can think of,” said Albus, “but it remains that Harry’s
magics alone, of all the means known to me, might have—”

“Hold,” said Severus. All expression vanished from his face. “A thought
occurs to me, I must check—” The Potions Master seized a pinch of Floo
powder, strode across the room toward the fireplace—Albus hastily waved
his wand to light it—and then in a flare of green flame, and the words
“Slytherin Head of House office”, Severus was gone.

She and Albus looked at each other and both shrugged; and then Albus
turned back to studying the parchment.

It was only a few minutes later that Severus spun back out of the Floo,
brushing traces of ash from himself.

“Well,” said the Potions Master. Again the expressionless face. “I am
afraid that Mr Potter does have a motive.”

“Speak!” said Albus.

“I found Lesath Lestrange in the Slytherin common room, studying,”
Severus said. “He was not reluctant to meet my eyes. And it seems that
Mr Lestrange did not like to think of his parents in Azkaban, in the
cold and the darkness, with the Dementors sucking away their life,
hurting every second of every day, and he told Mr Potter so in as many
words, and begged him to get them out. Since, you see, Mr Lestrange had
heard that the Boy-Who-Lived could do anything.”

She and Albus exchanged glances.

“Severus,” Minerva said, “surely… even Harry… has more common sense than
that…”

Her voice trailed off.

“Mr Potter thinks he is God,” Severus said without expression, “and
Lesath Lestrange fell to his knees before him in a heartfelt cry of
prayer.”

Minerva stared at Severus, feeling sick to her stomach. She had studied
Muggle religion—it was the most common reason for needing to
Memory-Charm the parents of Muggle-borns—and she knew enough to
understand what Severus had just said.

“In any case,” said the Potions Master. “I looked within Mr Lestrange to
see if he knew anything of his mother’s escape. He has heard nothing.
But the instant he learns, he will conclude that the person responsible
was Harry Potter.”

“I see…” Albus said slowly. “Thank you, Severus. That is good news.”

“Good news?” Minerva burst out.

Albus looked at her, his face as expressionless as Severus’s, now; and
she remembered, with a shock, that Albus’s own—“It is the best reason I
can possibly imagine for removing Bellatrix from Azkaban,” Albus said
quietly. “And if it is not Harry, let us recall, then it is certainly
Voldemort himself making his first moves. But let us not be hasty in
judgement while there is much we do not yet know, but soon will.”

Albus once more stood up from behind his desk, strode to the fireplace
still alight, cast in another pinch of green powder, and stuck his head
into the flames. “Department of Magical Law Enforcement,” he said,
“Director’s office.”

After a moment, the voice of Madam Bones came through clear and sharp,
“What is it, Albus? I am somewhat busy.”

“Amelia,” said Albus, “I beg of you to share any discoveries you have
made concerning this matter.”

There was a pause. “Oh,” said the cold voice of Madam Bones from the
blazing fire, “and is that a two-way road then, Albus?”

“It may be,” the old wizard said calmly.

“If any Auror dies of your reticence, old meddler, I will hold you
responsible in full measure.”

“I understand, Amelia,” Albus said, “but I have no wish to spark
needless alarm and incredulity—”

“Bellatrix Black has escaped from Azkaban! What alarm or incredulity do
you think I will call needless, in the face of that?”

“I may call on you to remember those words,” said the old wizard into
the green flames. “For if I learn that my fears are not needless, I will
tell you. Now, Amelia, I beg you, if you have learned anything
whatsoever upon this matter, please share it.”

There was another pause, and then Madam Bones’s voice said, “I have
information which I learned four hours into the future, Albus. Do you
still want it?”

Albus paused—

(weighing, Minerva knew, the possibility that he might want to go back
more than two hours from this instant; for you couldn’t send information
further back in time than six hours, not through any chain of
Time-Turners)

—and finally said, “Yes, please.”

“We had a lucky break,” said Madam Bones’s voice, “one of the Aurors who
witnessed the escape was a Muggle-born, and she told us that the
Flying-Fire spell, as we were calling it, might be no spell at all, but
a Muggle artefact.”

Like a punch in the stomach, that was how it felt, and the sickness in
Minerva’s belly redoubled. Anyone who’d watched a Chaos Legion battle
knew whose hand that showed…

Madam Bones’s voice continued. “We brought in Arthur Weasley from Misuse
of Muggle Artifacts—he knows more about Muggle artifacts than any wizard
alive—and gave him the descriptions from the Aurors on the scene, and he
cracked it. It was a Muggle artefact called a rocker, and they call it
that because you’d have to be off your rocker to ride one. Just six
years ago one of their rockers blew up, killed hundreds of Muggles in a
flash and almost set fire to the Moon. Weasley says that rockers use a
special kind of science called opposite reaction, so the plan is to
develop a jinx which will prevent that science from working around
Azkaban.”

“Thank you, Amelia,” Albus said gravely. “Is that everything?”

“I’ll check if we have anything from six hours forward,” said the voice
of Madam Bones, “if so they wouldn’t have told me, but I’ll have them
tell you. Do you have anything you want to tell me, Albus? Which of
those two possibilities is it looking like?”

“Not yet, Amelia,” Albus said, “but I may have word for you soon.”

He straightened up from the fire, then, which faded back to ordinary
yellow flames. Every minute of the old wizard’s years, every natural
second since his birth and every second which Time-Turning had added,
all of that plus a few extra decades for stress, was visible on his
lined face.

“Severus?” the old wizard said. “What was it actually?”

“A rocket,” said the half-blood Potions Master, who had grown up in the
Muggle town of Spinner’s End. “One of the most impressive Muggle
technologies.”

“How likely is Harry to know such arts?” said Minerva.

Severus drawled, “Oh, a boy like Mr Potter knows all about rockets;
that, dear Minerva, is a certainty. You must remember that things are
done differently in the Muggle world.” Severus frowned. “But rockets are
dangerous, and expensive…”

“Harry has stolen and hidden an unknown amount of money from his
Gringotts vault, perhaps thousands of Galleons,” said the Headmaster,
and then, to their twin stares, “That was not in my plan, but I made the
mistake of sending the Defence Professor to supervise Harry’s withdrawal
of five Galleons for Christmas presents…” The Headmaster shrugged. “Yes,
I agree, sheer folly in retrospect, let us continue.”

Minerva quietly thudded her head a few times against the headrest of her
chair.

“Nonetheless, Headmaster,” Severus said. “Just because the Death Eaters
never used Muggle artifacts in the first war, that does not mean he is
ignorant. Rockets fell on Britain as weapons, in the Muggle side of
Grindelwald’s war. If he spent the summers of those years in a Muggle
orphanage, as you told us, Headmaster… then he, too, has heard of
rockets. And if he has been listening to reports of Mr Potter and his
mock battles using Muggle artifacts, he would certainly learn his
enemy’s strengths and try to redouble them himself. That is just how he
thinks; any power he sees he will try to take for his own.”

The old wizard was standing stock still, utterly motionless, even the
hairs of his beard frozen in place like solid wires; and the thought
came to Minerva, as frightening as any thought she’d ever had, that
Albus Dumbledore was rooted to the spot in horror.

“Severus,” Albus Dumbledore said, and his voice almost cracked, “do you
realize what you are saying? If Harry Potter and Voldemort fight their
war with Muggle weapons there will be nothing left of the world but
fire!”

“What?” said Minerva. She had heard of guns, of course, but they weren’t
that dangerous to an experienced witch—

Severus spoke as though she weren’t in the room. “Then perhaps,
Headmaster, he is sending a deliberate warning to Harry Potter of
exactly that; saying that any attack with Muggle weapons will be met
with retaliation in kind. Command Mr Potter to cease his use of Muggle
technology in his battles; that will show him the message is received…
and not give him any more ideas.” Severus frowned. “Though, come to
think of it, Mr Malfoy—and of course Miss Granger—well, on second
thought a blanket prohibition on technology seems wiser—”

The old wizard pressed both his hands to his forehead, and from his lips
came an unsteady voice, “I begin to hope that it is Harry behind this
escape… oh, Merlin defend us all, what have I done, what have I done,
what will become of the world?”

Severus shrugged. “From the rumours I have heard, Headmaster, Muggle
weapons are only slightly worse than the more… recondite aspects of
wizardry—”

“Worse?” gasped Minerva, and then shut her mouth as though by force.

“Worse than any peril left in these fading years,” said Albus. “Not
worse than that which erased Atlantis from Time.”

Minerva stared at him, feeling the sweat break out all along her spine.

Severus continued, still addressing Albus. “All the Death Eaters save
Bellatrix would have betrayed him, all his supporters turned against
him, all the powers of the world converged to destroy him, if he had
been reckless with any truly dangerous potency. Is this so different,
then?”

Some motion, some colour, had returned to the old wizard’s face.
“Perhaps not…”

“And in any case,” Severus said with a slightly condescending smile,
“Muggle weapons are not so easy to obtain, not for a thousand Galleons
or a thousand thousand.”

Doesn’t Harry just Transfigure the devices he uses in his battles?
thought Minerva, but before she could open her mouth to ask—

The fireplace erupted in green flames, then, and the face of Pius
Thicknesse, Madam Bones’s assistant, appeared therein. “Chief Warlock?”
said Thicknesse. “I have a report for you, transmitted from—”
Thicknesse’s eyes flickered over Minerva and Severus, “six minutes ago.”

“Six hours ahead, you mean,” said Albus. “These two are meant to hear
it; deliver your report.”

“We know how it was done,” said Thicknesse. “In Bellatrix Black’s cell,
hidden in one corner, was a potions vial; and testing the traces of
remaining fluid shows that it was an Animagus potion.”

There was a long pause.

“I see…” Albus said heavily.

“Pardon me?” said Minerva. She didn’t.

Thicknesse’s head turned toward her. “Animagi, Madam McGonagall, in
their Animagus forms, are of less interest to Dementors. All prisoners
are tested before their arrival at Azkaban; and if they are Animagi,
their Animagus form is destroyed. But we had not considered that someone
protected by a Patronus Charm while taking the potion and performing the
meditation, might be able to become an Animagus after they went to
Azkaban—”

“I understood,” Severus said, having by now put on his customary sneer,
“that the Animagus meditation required considerable time.”

“Well, Mr Snape,” Thicknesse barked, “records show that Bellatrix Black
was an Animagus before she was sentenced to Azkaban and her form
destroyed; so maybe her second meditation didn’t take as much time as
her first!”

“I would not have thought it possible for any prisoner of Azkaban to do
such a thing…” Albus said. “But Bellatrix Black was a most powerful
sorceress before her incarceration, and she might have done it if any
witch could. Can Azkaban be secured against this method?”

“Yes,” said the confident head of Pius Thicknesse. “Our expert says that
it is nigh-unimaginable that an Animagus meditation could be performed
in less than three hours, regardless of experience. All visits to
prisoners allowed to receive them will be limited to two hours
henceforth, and the Dementors will inform us if any Patronus Charm is
maintained in the prison areas for longer than that.”

Albus looked unhappy at that, but nodded. “I see. There will be no
further attempts of that sort, of course, but do not relax your
vigilance. And when Amelia has been told all this, tell her that I have
information for her.”

The head of Pius Thicknesse vanished without another word.

“No further attempts…?” said Minerva.

“Because, dear Minerva,” Severus drawled, having not quite taken off his
habitual sneer, “if the Dark Lord had planned to free any of his other
servants from Azkaban, he would not have left behind the vial of potion
to tell us how it was done.” Severus frowned. “I confess… even so I do
not see why that vial was left there.”

“It is some kind of message…” Albus said slowly. “And I cannot see what
it means, not at all…” He drummed his fingers on his desk.

For a long minute or three, the old wizard stared off into nothingness,
frowning; while Severus also sat in silence.

Then Albus shook his head in dismay, and said, “Severus, do you
comprehend this?”

“No,” said the Potions Master, and with a sardonic smile, “which is
probably all the better for us; whatever we are intended to conclude
from it, that part of his plan has misfired.”

“You are certain, now, that it is You-Know… that it is Voldemort?” said
Minerva. “It could not be that some other Death Eater conceived this
clever notion?”

“And they knew about rockets, too?” Severus said dryly. “I don’t believe
the other Death Eaters were so fond of Muggle Studies. It is he.”

“Aye, it is he,” Albus said. “Azkaban has endured impenetrable for ages,
only to fall to an ordinary Animagus potion. It is too clever and too
impossible, which was ever Voldemort’s signature since the days he was
known as Tom Riddle. Anyone who wished to forge that signature must
needs be as cunning as Voldemort himself to do so. And there is no-one
else in the world who would accidentally overestimate my wit, and leave
me a message I cannot understand at all.”

“Unless he has gauged you exactly,” Severus said tonelessly, “in which
case all that is just what he intended you to think.”

Albus sighed. “Indeed. But even if he has tricked me perfectly, we may
at least rely on the conclusion that it was not Harry Potter.”

It should have come as a relief, and yet Minerva felt the chill
spreading through her spine and her veins, her lungs and her bones.

She remembered conversations like this.

She remembered conversations like this from ten years ago, from a time
when blood had run through Britain in wide rivers, when wizards and
witches she had once taught in class had been slaughtered by the
hundreds, she remembered burning homes and screaming children and
flashes of green light—

“What will you tell Madam Bones?” she whispered.

Albus stood from his desk and paced to the centre of the room, his hand
lightly touching the devices, here an instrument of light, there an
instrument of sound; he adjusted his glasses with one hand, used the
other to centre the long silver beard against his robes, and then
finally that ancient wizard turned back and faced them.

“I will tell her what little I know of the Dark Art called horcrux, by
which a soul is deprived of death,” said Albus Dumbledore, in a soft
voice that seemed to fill the whole room, “and I will tell her what may
be done with the flesh of the servant.”

“I will tell her that I am reconstituting the Order of the Phœnix.”

“I will tell her that Voldemort has returned.”

“And that the Second Wizarding War is begun.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some hours later…

The antique old clock upon the wall of the Deputy Headmistress’s office
had golden hands, and silver numerals to make the clock-face; it ticked
and jerked soundlessly through its motions, for there was a Quieting
enchantment on it.

The golden hour hand approached the silver numeral of nine, the golden
minute hand did the same, the two linked components of Time nearing each
other, soon to be in the same place and never to collide.

It was 8:43 p.m., and the time approached when Harry’s Time-Turner would
open, to be tested in the one way that no imaginable spell could fool,
unless that spell could bypass the laws of Time itself. No body or soul,
no knowledge or substance, could stretch an extra seven hours in a
single day. She would make up a message on the spot, and tell Harry to
take that message back six hours to Professor Flitwick at 3 p.m., and
she would ask Professor Flitwick if he had received it in that hour.

And Professor Flitwick would tell her that he had indeed received it at
3 p.m.

And she would tell Severus and Albus to have a little more faith in
Harry next time.

Professor McGonagall cast the Patronus Charm, and told her shining cat,
“Go to Mr Potter, and tell him this: Mr Potter, please come to my office
as soon as you hear this, without doing anything else along the way.”

62. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Final

MINERVA gazed up at the clock, the golden hands and silver numerals, the
jerking motion. Muggles had invented that, and until they had, wizards
had not bothered keeping time. Bells, timed by a sanded hourglass, had
served Hogwarts for its classes when it was built. It was one of the
things that blood purists wished not to be true, and therefore Minerva
knew it.

She had received an Outstanding on her Muggle Studies N.E.W.T., which
now seemed to her a mark of shame, considering how little she knew. Her
younger self had realized, even then, that the class was a sham, taught
by a pureblood, supposedly because Muggle-borns could not appreciate
what wizardborns needed to be told, and actually because the Board of
Governors did not approve of Muggles at all. But when she was seventeen
the Outstanding grade had been the main thing that mattered to her, she
was saddened to remember…

If Harry Potter and Voldemort fight their war with Muggle weapons there
will be nothing left of the world but fire!

She couldn’t imagine it, and the reason she couldn’t imagine it was that
she couldn’t imagine Harry fighting You-Know-Who.

She had encountered the Dark Lord four times and survived each one,
three times with Albus to shield her and once with Moody at her side.
She remembered the damaged, snakelike face, the faint green scales
scattered over the skin, the glowing red eyes, the voice that laughed in
a high-pitched hiss and promised nothing but cruelty and torment: the
monster pure and complete.

And Harry Potter was easy to picture in her mind, the bright expression
on the face of a young boy who wavered between taking the ludicrous
seriously and taking the serious ludicrously.

And to think of the two of them facing off at wand-point was too painful
to be imagined.

They had no right, no right at all to set this on an eleven-year-old
boy. She knew what the Headmaster had decided for him this day, for she
had been told to make the arrangements; and if it had been her at the
same age she would have raged and screamed and cried and been
inconsolable for weeks, and…

He is no ordinary first-year, Albus had said. He is marked as the Dark
Lord’s equal, and he has power the Dark Lord knows not.

The terrible hollow voice booming from Sybill Trelawney’s throat, the
true and original prophecy, echoed once more through her mind. She had a
feeling it didn’t mean what the Headmaster thought it did, but there was
no way to put the difference into words.

And even so it still seemed true, that if there were any eleven-year-old
within the Earth entire who could bear this burden, that boy approached
her office now. And if she said anything at all like ‘poor Harry’ to his
face… well, he wouldn’t like it.

So now I’ve got to find some way to kill an immortal Dark Wizard, Harry
had said on the day he had first learned. I really wish you had told me
that before I started shopping…

She’d been Head of House Gryffindor for long enough, she’d watched
enough friends die, to know that there were some people you couldn’t
save from becoming heroes.

There came a knock at the door, and Professor McGonagall said, “Enter.”

When Harry entered, his face had the same cold, alert look she’d seen in
Mary’s Place; and she wondered for an instant if he’d been wearing that
same mask, that same self, this whole day.

The young boy seated himself on the chair before her desk, and said, “So
is it time for me to be told what’s going on?” Neutral the words, not
the sharpness that should have gone with the expression.

Professor McGonagall’s eyes rose in surprise before she could stop them,
and she said, “The Headmaster told you nothing, Mr Potter?”

The boy shook his head. “Only that he’d received a warning that I might
be in danger, but I was safe now.”

Minerva was having trouble meeting his gaze. How could they do this to
him, how could they lay this upon an eleven-year-old boy, this war, this
destiny, this prophecy… and they didn’t even trust him…

She forced herself to look at Harry directly, and saw that his green
eyes were calm as they rested on her.

“Professor McGonagall?” the boy said quietly.

“Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, “I’m afraid it is not my place
to explain, but if after this the Headmaster still does not tell you
anything, you may come back to me and I will go yell at him for you.”

The boy’s eyes widened, something of the real Harry showing through the
crack before the cool mask was set back in place.

“In any case,” Professor McGonagall said briskly. “I’m sorry for the
inconvenience, Mr Potter, but I need to ask you to use your Time-Turner
to go back six hours to three o’clock, and give the following message to
Professor Flitwick: Silver on the tree. Ask the Professor to note down
the time at which you gave him that message. Afterwards the Headmaster
wishes to meet with you at your convenience.”

There was a pause.

Then the boy said, “I am suspected of misusing my Time-Turner, then?”

“Not by me!” Professor McGonagall said hastily. “I am sorry for the
inconvenience, Mr Potter.”

There was another pause, and then the young boy shrugged. “It’ll play
hell with my sleep schedule but I suppose it can’t be helped. Please let
the house elves know that if I ask for an early breakfast at, say,
three a.m. tomorrow morning, I’m to receive it.”

“Of course, Mr Potter,” she said. “Thank you for understanding.”

The boy rose up from his chair and gave her a formal nod, then slipped
out the door with his hand already going under his shirt to where his
Time-Turner waited; and she almost called out Harry! only she wouldn’t
have known what to say after.

Instead she waited, her eyes on the clock.

How long did she need to wait for Harry Potter to go back in time?

She didn’t need to wait at all, actually; if he had done it, then it had
already happened…

Minerva knew, then, that she was delaying because she was nervous, and
the realization saddened her. Mischief, yes, unspeakable unthinkable
mischief with all the prudence and foresight of a falling rock—she
didn’t know how the boy had tricked the Hat into not Sorting him to
Gryffindor where he obviously belonged—but nothing dark or harmful, not
ever. Beneath that mischief his goodness ran as deep and as true as the
Weasley twins’, though not even the Cruciatus Curse could have made her
say that out loud.

“Expecto Patronum,” she said, and then, “Go to Professor Flitwick, and
bear back his reply after you ask him this: ‘Did Mr Potter give you a
message from me, what was that message, and when did you receive it?’”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One hour earlier, having used the last remaining spin of his Time-Turner
after putting on the Cloak of Invisibility, Harry tucked the hourglass
back into his shirt.

And he set out toward the Slytherin dungeons, striding as quickly as his
invisible legs could manage, though not running. Thankfully the Deputy
Headmistress’s office was already on a lower floor of Hogwarts…

A few staircases later, taken two steps but not three steps at once,
Harry stopped at a corridor around whose final bend lay the entrance to
the Slytherin dorms.

Harry took a piece of parchment (not paper) out of his pouch, took a
Quotes Quill (not pen) out of his pouch, and told the quill, “Write
these letters exactly as I say them: Z-P-G-B-S-Y, space,
F-V-Y-I-R-E-B-A-G-U-R-G-E-R-R.”

There were two kinds of codes in cryptography, codes that stopped your
little brother from reading your message and codes that stopped major
governments from reading your message, and this was the first kind of
code, but it was better than nothing. In theory, no-one should read it
anyway; but even if they did, they wouldn’t remember anything
interesting unless they did cryptography first.

Harry then put that parchment in a parchment envelope, and with his wand
melted a little green wax to seal it.

In principle, of course, Harry could’ve done all that hours earlier, but
somehow waiting until after he heard the message from Professor
McGonagall’s own lips seemed less like Messing With Time.

Harry then put that envelope inside another envelope, which already
contained another sheet of paper with other instructions, and five
silver Sickles.

He closed that envelope (which already had a name written on the
outside), sealed it with more green wax, and pressed a final Sickle into
that seal.

Then Harry put that envelope into the very last envelope on which was
written in large letters the name “Merry Tavington”.

And Harry peeked around the bend to where the scowling portrait that
served as the door to the Slytherin dorms waited; and as he did not wish
the portrait to recall not-seeing anyone invisible, Harry used the Hover
Charm to float the envelope to the scowling man, and tap it against him.

The scowling man looked down at the envelope, peering at it through a
monocle, and sighed, and turned around to face toward the inside of the
Slytherin dorms, and called, “Message for Merry Tavington!”

The envelope was then allowed to fall to the floor.

A few moments later the portrait door opened, and Merry snatched up the
envelope from the floor.

She would open it up and find a Sickle and an envelope addressed to a
fourth-year student named Margaret Bulstrode.

(Slytherins did this sort of thing all the time, and a Sickle definitely
constituted a rush order.)

Margaret would open her envelope, and find five Sickles along with an
envelope to be dropped off in an unused classroom…

… after she used her Time-Turner to go back five hours…

…whereupon she would find another five Sickles waiting for her, if she
got there quickly.

And an invisible Harry Potter would be waiting in that classroom from
three p.m. to three-thirty, just in case someone tried the obvious test.

Well, it had been obvious to Professor Quirrell, anyway.

It had also been obvious to Professor Quirrell that (a) Margaret
Bulstrode had a Time-Turner and (b) she wasn’t very strict about how she
used it, e.g. telling her younger sister really good pieces of gossip
“before” anyone else had heard.

Some of the tension leaked off Harry as he strode away from the portrait
door, still invisible. Somehow his mind had still managed to worry about
the plan, even knowing that it had already succeeded. Now there remained
only the confrontation with Dumbledore, and then he was done for the
day… he’d go to the Headmaster’s gargoyles at 9 p.m., since doing it at
8 p.m. would seem more suspicious. This way he could claim that he’d
just misunderstood what Professor McGonagall had meant by “afterwards”…

The obscure pain clutched at Harry’s heart again as he thought of
Professor McGonagall.

So Harry retreated a little further into his dark side, which had worn
the calm expression and kept the fatigue off his face, and kept walking.

There would come a reckoning, but sometimes you had to borrow everything
you could today, and let the payments come due tomorrow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even Harry’s dark side was feeling the exhaustion by the time the
spiralling staircase had delivered him to the great oaken door that was
the final gate to Dumbledore’s office; but since Harry was now legally
four hours past his natural bedtime, it was safe to let some of the
fatigue show, the physical if not the emotional.

The oaken door swung open—

Harry’s eyes had already been focused in the direction of the great
desk, the throne behind it; so it took a moment to register that the
throne was empty, the desk barren but for a single leather-bound volume;
and then Harry shifted his gaze to see the wizard standing among his
fiddly things, the mysterious unknown devices in their scores. Fawkes
and the Sorting Hat occupied their respective perches, a bright cheerful
blaze crackled in a nook that Harry had not before realized was a
fireplace, and there were the two umbrellas and three red slippers for
left feet. All things in their place and in their customary appearance
except the old wizard himself, standing tall and dressed in robes of the
most formal black. It came as a shock to the eyes, those robes on that
person, it was as if Harry had seen his father wearing a business suit.

Very ancient was the appearance of Albus Dumbledore, and sorrowful.

“Hello, Harry,” said the old wizard.

From within an alternate self maintained like an Occlumency construct,
an innocent-Harry who had absolutely no idea what was happening inclined
his head coldly, and said, “Headmaster. I expect you’ve heard back from
Deputy Headmistress McGonagall by now, so if it’s fine by you, I would
really like to know what is going on.”

“Yes,” said the old wizard, “it is time, Harry Potter.” The back
straightened, only slightly for the wizard had already been standing
straight; but somehow even that small change made the wizard seem a foot
taller, and stronger if not younger, formidable though not dangerous,
his potency gathered about him like a cowl. In a clear voice, then, he
spoke: “This day your war against Voldemort has begun.”

“What?” said the outer Harry who knew nothing, while something watching
from inside thought much the same only with a lot more profanity
attached.

“Bellatrix Black has been taken from Azkaban, she has escaped from a
prison inescapable,” the old wizard said. “It is a feat that bears
Voldemort’s signature if ever I have seen it; and she, his most faithful
servant, is one of three requisites he must obtain to rise again in a
new body. After ten years the enemy you once defeated has returned, as
was foretold.”

Neither part of Harry could think of anything to say to that, at least
not for the few seconds before the old wizard continued.

“It need change little for you, for now,” said the old wizard. “I have
begun reconstituting the Order of the Phœnix that will serve you, I have
alerted the few souls who can and should understand: Amelia Bones,
Alastor Moody, Bartemius Crouch, certain others. Of the prophecy—yes,
there is a prophecy—I have not told them, but they know that Voldemort
is returned, and they know that you are to play some vital role. They
and I shall fight your war in its lesser beginnings, while you grow
stronger, and perhaps wiser, here at Hogwarts.” The old wizard’s hand
came up, as though beseeching. “So to you, for now, there is but one
change, and I implore you to understand its necessity. Do you recognize
the book on my desk, Harry?”

The inner part of Harry was screaming and banging its head against
imaginary walls, while the outer Harry turned and stared at what proved
to be—

There was a rather long pause.

Then Harry said, “It is a copy of The Lord of the Rings by J. R. R.
Tolkien.”

“You recognized a quote from that book,” said Dumbledore, an intent look
in his eyes, “so I assume you remember it well. If I am mistaken, let me
be corrected.”

Harry just stared at him.

“It is important to understand,” said Dumbledore, “that this book is not
a realistic depiction of a wizarding war. John Tolkien never fought
Voldemort. Your war will not be like the books you have read. Real life
is not like stories. Do you understand, Harry?”

Harry, rather slowly, nodded yes; and then shook his head no.

“In particular,” said Dumbledore, “there is a certain very foolish thing
that Gandalf does in the first book. He makes many mistakes, does
Tolkien’s wizard; but this one error is the most unforgivable. That
mistake is this: when Gandalf first suspected, even for a moment, that
Frodo held the One Ring, he should have moved Frodo to Rivendell at
once. He might have been embarrassed, that old wizard, if his suspicions
had proven false. He might have found it awkward to so command Frodo,
and Frodo would have been greatly inconvenienced, needing to set aside
many other plans and pastimes. But a little embarrassment, and
awkwardness, and inconvenience, is as nothing compared to the loss of
your whole war, when the nine Nazgûl swoop down on the Shire while you
are reading old scrolls in Minas Tirith, and take the Ring at once. And
it is not Frodo alone who would have been hurt; all Middle-Earth would
have fallen into slavery. If it had not been only a story, Harry, they
would have lost their war. Do you understand what I am saying?”

“Er…” said Harry, “not exactly…” There was something about Dumbledore
when he was like this, which made it hard to stay properly cold; his
dark side had trouble with weird.

“Then I will spell it out,” said the old wizard. His voice was stern,
his eyes were sad. “Frodo should have been moved to Rivendell at once by
Gandalf himself—and Frodo should never have left Rivendell without
guard. There should have been no night of terror in Bree, no
Barrow-downs, no Weathertop where Frodo was wounded, they could have
lost their entire war any of those times, for Gandalf’s folly! Do you
understand now what I am saying to you, son of Michael and Petunia?”

And the Harry who knew nothing did understand.

And the Harry who knew nothing saw that it was the smart, the wise, the
intelligent and sane, the right thing to do.

And the Harry who knew nothing said just what innocent-Harry would have
said, while the silent watcher screamed in confusion and agony.

“You’re saying,” Harry said, his voice shaking as the emotions inside
burned through the outer calm, “that I’m not going home to my parents
for Easter.”

“You will see them again,” the old wizard said swiftly. “I will beg them
to come here to be with you, I will extend them every courtesy during
their visits. But you are not going home for Easter, Harry. You are not
going home for the summer. You are no longer taking lunches in Diagon
Alley, even with Professor Quirrell to watch you. Your blood is the
second requisite Voldemort needs to rise as strong as before. So you are
never again leaving the bounds of Hogwarts’s wards without a vital
reason, and a guard strong enough to fend off any attack for long enough
to get you to safety.”

Water was beginning at the corners of Harry’s eyes. “Is that a request?”
said his quavering voice. “Or an order?”

“I’m sorry, Harry,” the old wizard said softly. “Your parents will see
the necessity, I hope; but if not… I am afraid they have no recourse;
the law, however wrongly, does not recognize them as your guardians. I
am sorry, Harry, and I will understand if you despise me for it, but it
must be done.”

Harry whirled, looked at the door, he couldn’t look at Dumbledore any
more, couldn’t trust his own face.

This is the cost to yourself, said Hufflepuff within his mind, even as
you imposed costs on others. Will that change your whole view of the
matter, the way Professor Quirrell thinks it will?

Automatically, the mask of innocent-Harry said exactly what it would
have said: “Are my parents in danger? Do they need to be moved here?”

“No,” said the old wizard’s voice. “I do not think so. The Death Eaters
learned, toward the end of the war, not to attack the Order’s families.
And if Voldemort is now acting without his former companions, he still
knows that it is I who make the decisions for now, and he knows that I
would give him nothing for any threat to your family. I have taught him
that I do not give in to blackmail, and so he will not try.”

Harry turned back then, and saw a coldness on the old wizard’s face to
match the shift in his voice, Dumbledore’s blue eyes grown hard as steel
behind the glasses, it didn’t match the person but it matched the formal
black robes.

“Is that everything, then?” said Harry’s trembling voice. Later he would
think about this, later he would think of some cunning countermeasure,
later he would ask Professor Quirrell if there was any way to convince
the Headmaster he was mistaken. Right now, maintaining the mask was
taking all of Harry’s attention.

“Voldemort used a Muggle artefact to escape Azkaban,” the old wizard
said. “He is watching you and learning from you, Harry Potter. Soon a
man named Arthur Weasley at the Ministry will issue an edict that all
use of Muggle artifacts must cease in the Defence Professor’s battles.
In the future, when you have a good idea, keep it closer about
yourself.”

It didn’t seem important by comparison. Harry just nodded, and said
again, “Is that everything?”

There was a pause.

“Please,” said the old wizard in a whisper. “I have no right to ask your
forgiveness, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, but please, at least say
that you understand why.” There was water in the old wizard’s eyes.

“I understand,” said the voice of the outer Harry who did understand, “I
mean… I was sort of thinking about it anyway… wondering whether I could
get you and my parents to let me stay over at Hogwarts during the summer
like the orphans, so I could read the library here, it’s just more
interesting at Hogwarts anyway…”

A choking sound came from Albus Dumbledore’s throat.

Harry turned again toward the door. It wasn’t escape unscathed, but it
was escape.

He took a step forward.

His hand reached to the door handle.

A piercing cry split the air—

As though in slow motion, as Harry spun, he saw the phœnix already
launched through the air and winging toward him.

From the true Harry, the one who knew his own guilt, came a flash of
panic, he hadn’t thought of that, hadn’t anticipated it, he’d prepared
to face Dumbledore but he’d forgotten about Fawkes—

Flap, flap, and flap, three times the phœnix’s wings flapped like the
flaring up and dying down of a fire, duration seemed to pass too slowly
as Fawkes soared over the mysterious devices toward where Harry stood.

And the red-golden bird was hovering in front of him with gentle
wing-sweeps, bobbing in the air like a candle-flame.

“What is it, Fawkes?” said the false Harry in puzzlement, looking the
phœnix in the eyes, as he would if he were innocent. The real Harry,
feeling the same awful sickness inside as when Professor McGonagall had
expressed her trust in him, thought, Did I turn evil today, Fawkes? I
didn’t think I was evil… Do you hate me now? If I’ve become something a
phœnix hates, maybe I should just give it up now, give up everything now
and confess—

Fawkes screamed, the most terrible cry Harry had ever heard, a scream
that set all the devices vibrating and made all the sleeping figures
start within their portraits.

It pierced through all of Harry’s defences like a white-hot sword
through butter, collapsed all his layers like a punctured balloon
popping, reshuffled his priorities in an instant as he remembered the
one most important thing; the tears began pouring freely from Harry’s
eyes, down his cheeks, his voice choked as the words came out of his
throat like coughing up lava—

“Fawkes says,” Harry’s voice said, “he wants me, to do, something,
about, the prisoners, in Azkaban—”

“Fawkes, no!” said the old wizard. Dumbledore strode forward, reaching
out to the phœnix with a pleading hand. The old wizard’s voice was
almost as desperate as the phœnix’s scream had been. “You cannot ask
that of him, Fawkes, he’s only a boy still!”

“You went to Azkaban,” Harry whispered, “you took Fawkes with you, he
saw—you saw—you were there, you saw—WHY DIDN’T YOU DO ANYTHING? WHY
DIDN’T YOU LET THEM OUT?”

When the instruments stopped vibrating, Harry realized that Fawkes had
screamed at the same time as his own scream, that the phœnix was now
flying next to Harry and facing Dumbledore at his side, the red-golden
head level with his own.

“Can you,” whispered the old wizard, “can you truly hear the voice of
the phœnix so clearly?”

Harry was sobbing almost too hard to speak, for all the metal doors he’d
passed, the voices he’d heard, the worst memories, the desperate begging
as he walked away, all of it had burst into his mind like fire at the
phœnix’s scream, all the inner bulwarks smashed. Harry didn’t know
whether he could truly hear the voice of the phœnix so clearly, whether
he would have understood Fawkes without already knowing. All Harry knew
was that he had a plausible excuse to say the things Professor Quirrell
had told him he must never raise in conversation from this day forth;
because this was just what innocent-Harry would have said, would have
done, if he had heard so clearly. “They’re hurting—we have to help
them—”

“I can’t!” cried Albus Dumbledore. “Harry, Fawkes, I can’t, there’s
nothing I can do!”

Another piercing scream.

“WHY NOT? JUST GO IN AND TAKE THEM OUT!”

The old wizard wrenched his gaze from the phœnix, his eyes meeting
Harry’s instead. “Harry, tell Fawkes for me! Tell him it’s not that
simple! Phœnixes aren’t mere animals but they are animals, Harry, they
can’t understand—”

“I don’t understand either,” Harry said, his voice trembling. “I don’t
understand why you’re feeding people to Dementors! Azkaban isn’t a
prison, it’s a torture chamber and you’re torturing those people to
death!”

“Percival,” said the old wizard hoarsely, “Percival Dumbledore, my own
father, Harry, my own father died in Azkaban! I know, I know it is a
horror! But what would you have of me? To break Azkaban by force? Would
you have me declare open rebellion against the Ministry?”

CAW!

There was a pause, and Harry’s trembling voice said, “Fawkes doesn’t
know anything about governments, he just wants you—to take the prisoners
out—of their cells—and he’ll help you fight, if anyone stands in your
way—and—and so will I, Headmaster! I’ll go with you and destroy any
Dementor that comes near! We’ll worry about the political fallout
afterwards, I bet that you and I together could get away with it—”

“Harry,” whispered the old wizard, “phœnixes do not understand how
winning a battle can lose a war.” Tears were streaming down the old
wizard’s cheeks, dripping into his silver beard. “The battle is all they
know. They are good, but not wise. That is why they choose wizards to be
their masters.”

“Can you bring out the Dementors to where I can get at them?” Harry’s
voice was begging, now. “Bring them out in groups of fifteen—I think I
could destroy that many at a time without hurting myself—”

The old wizard shook his head. “It was hard enough to pass off the loss
of one—they might give me one more, but never two—they are considered
national possessions, Harry, weapons in case of war—”

Fury blazed in Harry then, blazed up like fire, it might have come from
where a phœnix now rested on his own shoulder, and it might have come
from his own dark side, and the two angers mixed within him, the cold
and the hot, and it was a strange voice that said from his throat, “Tell
me something. What does a government have to do, what do the voters have
to do with their democracy, what do the people of a country have to do,
before I ought to decide that I’m not on their side any more?”

The old wizard’s eyes widened where he stared at the boy with a phœnix
upon his shoulder. “Harry… are those your words, or the Defence
Professor’s—”

“Because there has to be some point, doesn’t there? And if it’s not
Azkaban, where is it, then?”

“Harry, listen, please, hear me! Wizards could not live together if they
each declared rebellion against the whole, every time they differed!
Always there will be something—”

“Azkaban is not just something! It’s evil!”

“Yes, even evil! Even some evils, Harry, for wizards are not perfectly
good! And yet it is better that we live in peace, than in chaos; and for
you and I to break Azkaban by force would be the beginning of chaos, can
you not see it?” The old wizard’s voice was pleading. “And it is
possible to oppose the will of your fellows openly or in secret, without
hating them, without declaring them evil and enemy! I do not think the
people of this country deserve that of you, Harry! And even if some of
them did—what of the children, what of the students in Hogwarts, what of
the many good people mixed in with the bad?”

Harry looked on his shoulder at where Fawkes had perched, saw the
phœnix’s eyes gazing back at him, they did not glow and yet they blazed,
red flames in a sea of golden fire.

What do you think, Fawkes?

“Caw?” said the phœnix.

Fawkes didn’t understand the conversation.

The young boy looked at the old wizard, and said in a thick voice, “Or
maybe the phœnixes are wiser than us, smarter than us, maybe they follow
us around hoping that some day we’ll listen to them, some day we’ll get
it, some day we’ll just take, the prisoners, out, of their cells—”

Harry spun and pulled open the oaken door and stepped onto the staircase
and slammed the door behind him.

The stairwell began rotating, Harry began descending, and he put his
face in his hands, and began to weep.

It wasn’t until he was halfway to the bottom that he noticed the
difference, noticed the warmth still spreading through him, and realized
that—

“Fawkes?” Harry whispered.

—the phœnix was still on his shoulder, perched there as he had seen him
a few times upon Dumbledore’s.

Harry looked again into the eyes, red flames in golden fire.

“You’re not my phœnix now… are you?”

Caw!

“Oh,” Harry said, his voice trembling a little, “I’m glad to hear that,
Fawkes, because I don’t think—the Headmaster—I don’t think he deserves—”

Harry stopped, took a breath.

“I don’t think he deserves that, Fawkes, he was trying to do the right
thing…”

Caw!

“But you’re angry at him and trying to make a point. I understand.”

The phœnix nestled his head against Harry’s shoulder, and the stone
gargoyle walked smoothly aside to let Harry pass back into the corridors
of Hogwarts.

63. The Stanford Prison Experiment, Aftermaths

Aftermath, Hermione Granger

SHE was just starting to close up her books and put away her homework in
preparation for sleep, Padma and Mandy stacking up their own books
across the table from her, when Harry Potter walked into the Ravenclaw
common room; and it was only then that she realized, she hadn’t seen him
at all since breakfast.

That realization was rapidly stomped-on by a much more startling one.

There was a golden-red winged creature on Harry’s shoulder, a bright
bird of fire.

And Harry looked sad and worn and really tired like the phœnix was the
only thing keeping him on his feet, but there was still a warmth about
him, if you crossed your eyes you might have thought you were looking at
the Headmaster somehow, that was the impression that went through
Hermione’s mind even though it didn’t make any sense.

Harry Potter trudged across the Ravenclaw common room, past sofas full
of staring girls, past card-game circles of staring boys, heading for
her.

In theory she wasn’t talking to Harry Potter yet, his week wasn’t up
until tomorrow, but whatever was going on was clearly a whole lot more
important than that—

“Fawkes,” Harry said, just as she was opening her mouth, “that girl over
there is Hermione Granger, she’s not talking to me right now because I’m
an idiot, but if you want to be on a good person’s shoulder she’s better
than me.”

So much exhaustion and hurt in Harry Potter’s voice—

But before she could figure out what to do about it, the phœnix had
glided off Harry’s shoulder like a fire creeping up a matchstick on
fast-forward, flashing toward her; there was a phœnix flying in front of
her and staring at her with eyes of light and flame.

“Caw?” asked the phœnix.

Hermione stared at it, feeling like she was facing a question on a test
she’d forgotten to study for, the one most important question and she’d
gone her whole life without studying for it, she couldn’t find anything
to say.

“I’m—” she said. “I’m only twelve, I haven’t done anything yet—”

The phœnix just glided gently around, rotating around one wing-tip like
the being of light and air that it was, and soared back to Harry
Potter’s shoulder, where it settled down quite firmly.

“You silly boy,” said Padma across from her, looking like she was
deciding whether to laugh or grimace, “phœnixes aren’t for smart girls
who do their homework, they’re for idiots who charge straight at five
older Slytherin bullies. There’s a reason why the Gryffindor colours are
red and gold, you know.”

There was a lot of friendly laughter in the Ravenclaw common room.

Hermione wasn’t one of the laughing ones.

Neither was Harry.

Harry had put a hand over his face. “Tell Hermione I’m sorry,” he said
to Padma, his voice almost fallen to a whisper. “Tell her I forgot that
phœnixes are animals, they don’t understand time and planning, they
don’t understand people who are going to do good things later—I’m not
sure they understand really the notion of there being something that a
person is, all they see is what people do. Fawkes doesn’t know what
twelve means. Tell Hermione I’m sorry—I shouldn’t have—it just all goes
wrong, doesn’t it?”

Harry turned to go, the phœnix still on his shoulder, began slowly
trudging toward the staircase that led up to his dorm.

And Hermione couldn’t leave it at that, she just couldn’t leave it at
that. She didn’t know if it was her competition with Harry or something
else. She just couldn’t leave it with the phœnix turning away from her.

She had to—

Her mind keyed a frantic question to the entirety of her excellent
memory, found just one thing—

“I was going to run in front of the Dementor to try and save Harry!” she
shouted a little desperately at the red-golden bird. “I mean, I actually
did start running and everything! That was stupid and courageous,
right?”

With a warbling cry the phœnix launched itself from Harry’s shoulder
again, back toward her like a spreading blaze, it circled her three
times like she was the centre of an inferno, and for just a moment its
wing brushed against her cheek, before the phœnix soared back to Harry.

There was a hush in the Ravenclaw common room.

“Told you so,” Harry said aloud, and then he started climbing the stairs
up to his bedroom; he seemed to climb very quickly, like he was very
light on his feet for some reason, so that in just a moment he and
Fawkes were gone.

Hermione held up a trembling hand to her cheek where Fawkes had brushed
her with his wing, a spot of warmth lingering there like that one small
patch of skin had been very gently set on fire.

She’d answered the question of the phœnix, she supposed, but it felt to
her like she’d just barely squeaked by on the test, like she’d got 62
and she could’ve got 104 if she’d tried harder.

If she’d tried at all.

She hadn’t really been trying, when she thought about it.

Just doing her homework—

Who have you saved?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Fawkes

Nightmares, the boy had expected, screams and begging and howling
hurricanes of emptiness, the discharge of the horrors being laid down
into memory, and in that fashion, perhaps, becoming part of the past.

And the boy knew that the nightmares would come.

The next night, they would come.

The boy dreamed, and in his dreams the world was on fire, Hogwarts was
on fire, his home was on fire, the streets of Oxford were on fire, all
ablaze with golden flames that shone but did not consume, and all the
people walking through the blazing streets were shining with white light
brighter than the fire, like they were flames themselves, or stars.

The other first-year boys came to bed, and saw it for themselves, the
wonder whose rumour they had already heard, that in his bed Harry Potter
lay silent and motionless, a gentle smile on his face, while perched on
his pillow a red-golden bird watched over him, with bright wings swept
above him like a blanket pulled over his head.

The reckoning had been put off one more night.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Draco Malfoy

Draco straightened his robes, making sure the green trim was straight.
He waved his wand over his own head and said a Charm that Father had
taught him while other children were still playing in mud, a Charm which
ensured that not a single speck of lint or dust would dirty his wizard’s
robes.

Draco picked up the mysterious envelope that Father had owled him, and
tucked it into his robes. He had already used Incendio and Everto on the
mysterious note.

And then he headed off to breakfast, to seat himself on exactly the same
tick of the clock where the food appeared, if he could manage it, so
that it would seem like all others had been waiting on his appearance to
eat. Because when you were the scion of Malfoy you were first in
everything, including breakfast, that was why.

Vincent and Gregory were waiting for him outside the door of his private
room, up even before he was—though not, of course, dressed quite as
sharply.

The Slytherin common room was deserted, anyone who got up this early was
heading straight to breakfast anyway.

The dungeon halls were silent but for their own footsteps, empty and
echoing.

The Great Hall was a hubbub of alarm despite the relatively few
arrivals; some younger children crying, students running back and forth
between tables or standing in knots shouting at each other, a red-robed
prefect was standing in front of two green-trimmed students and yelling
at them and Snape was striding toward the mess—

The noise dimmed a little as people caught sight of Draco, as some of
the faces turned to stare at him, and fell quiet.

The food appeared on the tables. No-one looked at it.

And Snape spun on his heel, abandoning his target, and headed straight
toward Draco.

A knot of fear clutched at Draco’s heart, had something happened to
Father—no, surely Father would have told him—whatever was happening, why
hadn’t Father told him—

There were bags of fatigue beneath Snape’s eyes, Draco saw as their Head
of House came close, the Potions Master had never been a sharp dresser
(that was an understatement) but his robes were even dirtier and more
disarrayed this morning, spotted with extra grease.

“You haven’t heard?” hissed their Head of House as he came close. “For
pity’s sake, Malfoy, don’t you have a newspaper delivered?”

“What is it, Profe—”

“Bellatrix Black was taken from Azkaban!”

“What?” said Draco in shock, as Gregory behind him said something he
really shouldn’t have and Vincent just gasped.

Snape was gazing at him with narrowed eyes, then nodded abruptly.
“Lucius told you nothing, then. I see.” Snape gave a snort, turned away—

“Professor!” said Draco. The implications were just starting to dawn on
him, his mind spinning frantically. “Professor, what should I do—Father
didn’t instruct me—”

“Then I suggest,” Snape said sneeringly, as he strode away, “that you
tell them that, Malfoy, as your father intended!”

Draco glanced back at Vincent and Gregory, though he didn’t know why he
was bothering, of course they looked even more confused than he did.

And Draco walked forward to the Slytherin table, and sat down at the far
end, which was still empty of sitters.

Draco put a sausage omelet on his plate, began eating it with automatic
motions.

Bellatrix Black had been taken from Azkaban.

Bellatrix Black had been taken from Azkaban…?

Draco didn’t know what to make of that, it was as totally unexpected as
the Sun going out—well, the Sun would expectedly go out in six billion
years but this was as unexpected as the Sun going out tomorrow. Father
wouldn’t have done it, Dumbledore wouldn’t have done it, no-one should
have been able to do it—what did it mean—what use would Bellatrix be to
anyone after ten years in Azkaban—even if she got strong again, what use
was a powerful sorceress who was completely evil and insane and
fanatically devoted to a Dark Lord who wasn’t around any more?

“Hey,” said Vincent from where he was sitting next to Draco, “I don’t
understand, boss, why’d we do that?”

“We didn’t do it, you dolt!” snapped Draco. “Oh, for Merlin’s sake, if
even you think we—didn’t your father ever tell you any stories about
Bellatrix Black? She tortured Father once, she tortured your father,
she’s tortured everyone, the Dark Lord once told her to Crucio herself
and she did it! She didn’t do crazy things to inspire fear and obedience
in the populace, she did crazy things because she’s crazy! She’s a bitch
is what she is!”

“Oh, really?” said an incensed voice from behind Draco.

Draco didn’t look up. Gregory and Vincent would be watching his back.

“I would’ve thought you’d be happy—”

“—to hear that a Death Eater had been freed, Malfoy!”

Amycus Carrow had always been one of the other problem people; Father
had once told Draco to make sure he was never alone in the same room
with Amycus…

Draco turned around and gave Flora and Hestia Carrow his Number Three
Sneer, the one that said that he was in a Noble and Most Ancient House
and they weren’t and yes, that mattered. Draco said in their general
direction, certainly not deigning to address them in particular,
“There’s Death Eaters and then there’s Death Eaters,” and then turned
back to his food.

There were two furious huffs in unison, and then two pairs of shoes
stormed off toward the other end of the Slytherin table.

It was a few minutes later that Millicent Bulstrode ran up to them,
visibly out of breath, and said, “Mr Malfoy, did you hear?”

“About Bellatrix Black?” said Draco. “Yeah—”

“No, about Potter!”

“What?”

“Potter was going around with a phœnix on his shoulder last night,
looking like he’d been dragged through ten leagues of mud, they say that
the phœnix took him to Azkaban to try to stop Bellatrix and he fought a
duel with her and they blew up half the fortress!”

“What?” said Draco. “Oh, there is just no way that—”

Draco stopped.

He’d said that a number of times about Harry Potter and had started to
notice a trend.

Millicent ran off to tell someone else.

“You don’t really think—” said Gregory.

“I honestly don’t know any more,” said Draco.

A few minutes later, after Theodore Nott had sat down across from him
and William Rosier had gone to sit with the Carrow twins, Vincent nudged
him and said, “There.”

Harry Potter had entered the Great Hall.

Draco watched him closely.

There was no alarm on Harry’s face as he saw, no surprise or shock, he
just looked…

It was the same distant, self-absorbed look Harry wore when he was
trying to figure out the answer to a question Draco couldn’t understand
yet.

Draco hastily shoved himself up from the bench of the Slytherin table,
saying “Stay behind,” and walked with all decorous speed toward Harry.

Harry seemed to notice his approach just as the other boy was turning
toward the Ravenclaw table, and Draco—

—gave Harry one quick look—

—and then walked right past him, straight out of the Great Hall.

It was a minute later that Harry peered around the corner of the small
stony nook where Draco had waited, it might not fool everyone but it
would create plausible deniability.

“Quietus,” said Harry. “Draco, what—”

Draco took the envelope out of his robes. “I have a message for you from
Father.”

“Huh?” said Harry, and took the envelope from Draco, and tore it open in
a rather careless manner, and drew forth a sheet of parchment and
unfolded it and—

Harry gave a sharp intake of breath.

Then Harry looked at Draco.

Then Harry looked back down at the parchment.

There was a pause.

Harry said, “Did Lucius tell you to report on my reaction to this?”

Draco paused for a moment, weighing, and then opened his mouth—

“I see he did,” said Harry, and Draco cursed himself, he should’ve known
better, only it had been hard to decide. “What are you going to tell
him?”

“That you were surprised,” said Draco.

“Surprised,” Harry said flatly. “Yeah. Good. Tell him that.”

“What is it?” said Draco. And then, as he saw Harry looking conflicted,
“If you’re dealing with Father behind my back—”

And Harry, without a word, gave Draco the paper.

It said:

I know it was you.

“WHAT THE—”

“I was going to ask you that,” said Harry. “Have you got any idea what’s
up with your Dad?”

Draco stared at Harry.

Then Draco said, “Did you do it?”

“What?” said Harry. “What possible reason would I—how would I—”

“Did you do it, Harry?”

“No!” Harry said. “Of course not!”

Draco had listened carefully, but he hadn’t detected any hesitation or
tremor.

So Draco nodded, and said, “I’ve got no idea what Father’s thinking but
it can’t, I mean it can’t possibly be good. And, um… people are also
saying…”

“What,” said Harry warily, “are they saying, Draco?”

“Did a phœnix really take you to Azkaban to try to stop Bellatrix Black
from escaping—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Neville Longbottom

Harry had only just sat down at the Ravenclaw table for the first time,
hoping to grab a quick bite of food. He knew he needed to go off and
think about things, but there was a tiny remaining bit of phœnix’s peace
(even after the encounter with Draco) that he still wanted to cling to,
some beautiful dream of which he remembered nothing but the beauty; and
the part of him that wasn’t feeling peaceful was waiting for all the
anvils to finish dropping on him, so that when he went off to think and
be by himself for a while, he could batch-process all the disasters at
once.

Harry’s hand grasped a fork, lifted a bite of mashed potatoes toward his
mouth—

And there was a shriek.

Every now and then someone would shout when they heard the news, but
Harry’s ears recognized this one—

Harry was up from the bench in an instant, heading toward the Hufflepuff
table, a horrible sick feeling dawning in the pit of his stomach. It was
one of those things he hadn’t considered when he’d decided to commit the
crime, because Professor Quirrell had planned for no-one to know; and
now, afterwards, Harry just—hadn’t thought of it—

This, Hufflepuff said with bitter intensity, is also your fault.

But by the time Harry got there, Neville was sitting down and eating
fried sausage patties with Snippyfig Sauce.

The Hufflepuff boy’s hands were trembling, but he cut the food, and ate
it, without dropping it.

“Hello, General,” Neville said, his voice wavering only slightly. “Did
you fight a duel with Bellatrix Black last night?”

“No,” Harry said. His own voice was also wavering, for some reason.

“Didn’t think so,” said Neville. There was a scraping sound as his knife
cut the sausage again. “I’m going to hunt her down and kill her, can I
count on you to help?”

There were startled gasps from the mass of Hufflepuffs who had gathered
around Neville.

“If she comes after you,” Harry said hoarsely, if it was all a terrible
mistake, if it was all a lie, “I’ll defend you even with my life,” won’t
let you get hurt for what I did, no matter what, “but I won’t help you
go after her, Neville, friends don’t help friends commit suicide.”

Neville’s fork paused on the way to his mouth.

Then Neville put the bite of food in his mouth, chewed again.

And Neville swallowed it.

And Neville said, “I didn’t mean right now, I mean after I graduate
Hogwarts.”

“Neville,” Harry said, keeping his voice under very careful control, “I
think, even after you graduate, that might still be a just plain stupid
idea. There’s got to be much more experienced Aurors tracking her—” oh,
wait, that’s not good—

“Listen to him!” said Ernie Macmillan, and then an older-looking
Hufflepuff girl standing close to Neville said, “Nevvy, please, think
about it, he’s right!”

Neville stood up.

Neville said, “Please don’t follow me.”

Neville walked away from all of them; Harry and Ernie reaching out
involuntarily toward him, and some of the other Hufflepuffs as well.

And Neville sat down at the Gryffindor table, and distantly (though they
had to strain to hear) they heard Neville say, “I’m going to hunt her
down and kill her after I graduate, anyone want to help?” and at least
five voices said “Yes” and then Ron Weasley said loudly, “Get in line,
you lot, I got an owl from Mum this morning, she says to tell everyone
she’s called dibs” and someone said “Molly Weasley against Bellatrix
Black? Who does she even think she’s kidding—” and Ron reached over to a
plate and hefted a muffin—

Someone tapped Harry on the shoulder, and he turned around and saw an
unfamiliar green-trimmed older girl, who handed him a parchment envelope
and then quickly strode away.

Harry stared at the envelope for a moment, then started walking toward
the nearest wall. That wasn’t very private, but it should be private
enough, and Harry didn’t want to give the impression of having much to
hide.

That had been a Slytherin System delivery, what you used if you wanted
to communicate with someone without anyone else knowing that the two of
you had talked. The sender gave an envelope to someone who had a
reputation for being a reliable messenger, along with ten Knuts; that
first person would take five Knuts and pass the envelope to another
messenger along with the other five Knuts, and the second messenger
would open up that envelope and find another envelope with a name
written on it and deliver that envelope to that person. That way neither
of the two people passing the message knew both the sender and the
recipient, so no-one else knew that those two parties had been in
contact…

When Harry reached the wall, he put the envelope inside his robes,
opened it beneath the folds of cloth, and carefully sneaked a peek at
the parchment he drew forth.

It said,

Classroom to the left of Transfiguration, 8 in the morning.

—LL.

Harry stared at it, trying to remember if he knew anyone with the
initials LL.

His mind searched…

Searched…

Retrieved—

“The Quibbler girl?” Harry whispered incredulously, and then shut his
mouth. She was only ten years old, she shouldn’t be in Hogwarts at all!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Lesath Lestrange

Harry was standing in the unused classroom next to Transfiguration at
8 a.m., waiting, he’d at least managed to get some food into himself
before facing the next disaster, Luna Lovegood…

The door to the classroom opened, and Harry saw, and gave himself a
really hard mental kick.

One more thing he hadn’t thought of, one more thing he really should
have.

The older boy’s green-trimmed formal robes were askew, there were red
spots on them looking very much like small dots of fresh blood, and one
corner of his mouth had the look of a place that had been cut and
healed, by Episkey or some other minor medical Charm that didn’t quite
erase all the damage.

Lesath Lestrange’s face was streaked with tears, fresh tears and
half-dried tears, and there was water in his eyes, a promise of still
more on the way. “Quietus,” said the older boy, and then “Hominem
Revelio” and some other things, while Harry thought frantically and
without much luck.

And then Lesath lowered his wand and sheathed it in his robes, and
slowly this time, formally, the older boy dropped to his knees on the
dusty classroom floor.

Bowed his head all the way down, until his forehead also touched the
dust, and Harry would have spoken but he was voiceless.

Lesath Lestrange said, in a breaking voice, “My life is yours, my Lord,
and my death as well.”

“I,” Harry said, there was a huge lump in his throat and he was having
trouble speaking, “I—” didn’t have anything to do with it, he should
have been saying, should be saying right now, but then again
innocent-Harry would have had trouble speaking too—

“Thank you,” whispered Lesath, “thank you, my Lord, oh, thank you,” the
sound of a choked-off sob came from the kneeling boy, all Harry could
see of him was the hair on the back of his head, nothing of his face.
“I’m a fool, my Lord, an ungrateful bastard, unworthy to serve you, I
cannot abase myself enough, for I—I shouted at you after you helped me,
because I thought you were refusing me, and I didn’t even realize until
this morning that I’d been such a fool as to ask you in front of
Longbottom—”

“I didn’t have anything to do with it,” Harry said.

(It was still very hard to tell an outright lie like that.)

Slowly Lesath raised his head from the floor, looked up at Harry.

“I understand, my Lord,” said the older boy, his voice wavering a
little, “you do not trust my cunning, and indeed I have shown myself a
fool… I only wanted to say to you, that I am not ungrateful, that I know
it must have been hard enough to save only one person, that they’re
alerted now, that you can’t—get Father—but I am not ungrateful, I will
never be ungrateful to you again. If ever you have a use for this
unworthy servant, call me wherever I am, and I will answer, my Lord—”

“I was not involved in any way.”

(But it got easier each time.)

Lesath gazed up at Harry, said uncertainly, “Am I dismissed from your
presence, my Lord…?”

“I am not your Lord.”

Lesath said, “Yes, my Lord, I understand,” and pushed himself back up
from the floor, stood straight and bowed deeply, then backed away from
Harry until he turned to open the classroom door.

As Lesath’s hand touched the doorknob, he paused.

Harry couldn’t see Lesath’s face, as the older boy’s voice said, “Did
you send her to someone who would take care of her? Did she ask about me
at all?”

And Harry said, his voice perfectly level, “Please stop that. I was not
involved in any way.”

“Yes, my Lord, I’m sorry, my Lord,” said Lesath’s voice; and the
Slytherin boy opened the door and went out and shut the door behind him.
His feet sped up as he ran away, but not fast enough that Harry couldn’t
hear him start sobbing.

Would I cry? wondered Harry. If I knew nothing, if I was innocent, would
I cry right now?

Harry didn’t know, so he just kept looking at the door.

And some unbelievably tactless part of him thought, Yay, we completed a
quest and got a minion—

Shut up. If you ever want to vote on anything ever again… shut up.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Amelia Bones

“Then his life isn’t in danger, I take it,” said Amelia.

The healer, a stern-eyed old man who wore his robes white (he was a
Muggle-born and honouring some strange tradition of Muggles, of which
Amelia had never asked, although privately she thought it made him look
too much like a ghost), shook his head and said, “Definitely not.”

Amelia looked at the human form resting unconscious on the healer’s bed,
the burned and blasted flesh, the thin sheet that covered him for
modesty’s sake having been peeled back at her command.

He might make a full recovery.

He might not.

The healer had said it was too early to say.

Then Amelia looked at the other witch in the room, the detective.

“And you say,” Amelia said, “that the burning matter was Transfigured
from water, presumably in the form of ice.”

The detective nodded her head, and said, sounding puzzled, “It could
have been much worse, if not for—”

“How very nice of them,” she spat, and then pressed a weary hand to her
forehead. No… no, it had been intended as a kindness. By the final stage
of the escape there would be no point in trying to fool anyone. Whoever
had done this, then, had been trying to mitigate the damage—and they’d
been thinking in terms of Aurors breathing the smoke, not of anyone
being attacked with the fire. If it had been them still in control, no
doubt, they would have steered the rocker more mercifully.

But Bellatrix Black had ridden the rocker out of Azkaban alone, all the
watching Aurors had agreed on that, they’d had their
Anti-Disillusionment Charms active and there had been only one woman on
that rocker, though the rocker had sported two sets of stirrups.

Some good and innocent person, capable of casting the Patronus Charm,
had been tricked into rescuing Bellatrix Black.

Some innocent had fought Bahry One-Hand, carefully subduing an
experienced Auror without significantly injuring him.

Some innocent had Transfigured the fuel for the Muggle artefact on which
the two of them had been to ride out of Azkaban, making it from frozen
water for the benefit of her Aurors.

And then their usefulness to Bellatrix Black had ended.

You would have expected anyone capable of subduing Bahry One-Hand to
have foreseen that part. But then you wouldn’t have expected anyone who
could cast the Patronus Charm to try rescuing Bellatrix Black in the
first place.

Amelia passed her hand down over her eyes, closing them for a moment in
silent mourning. I wonder who it was, and how You-Know-Who manipulated
them… what story they could possibly have been told…

She didn’t even realize until a moment later that the thought meant she
was starting to believe. Perhaps because, no matter how difficult it was
to believe Dumbledore, it was becoming more difficult not to recognize
the hand of that cold, dark intelligence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Albus Dumbledore

It might have been only fifty-seven seconds before breakfast ended and
he might have needed four twists of his Time-Turner, but in the end,
Albus Dumbledore did make it.

“Headmaster?” squeaked the polite voice of Professor Filius Flitwick, as
the old wizard passed him by on his way to his seat. “Mr Potter left a
message for you.”

The old wizard stopped. He looked inquiringly at the Charms Professor.

“Mr Potter said that after he woke up, he realized how unfair had been
the things he said to you after Fawkes screamed. Mr Potter said that he
wasn’t saying anything about anything else, just apologizing for that
one part.”

The old wizard kept looking at his Charms Professor, and still did not
speak.

“Headmaster?” squeaked Filius.

“Tell him I said thank you,” said Albus Dumbledore, “but that it is
wiser to listen to phœnixes than to wise old wizards,” and sat down at
his place three seconds before all the food vanished.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Professor Quirrell

“No,” Madam Pomfrey snapped at the child, “you may not see him! You may
not pester him! You may not ask him one little question! He is to rest
in bed and do nothing for at least three days!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Minerva McGonagall

She was heading toward the infirmary, and Harry Potter was leaving it,
when they passed each other.

The look he gave her wasn’t angry.

It wasn’t sad.

It didn’t say much at all.

It was like… like he was looking at her just long enough to make it
clear that he wasn’t deliberately avoiding looking at her.

And then he looked away before she could figure out what look to give
him in return; as though he wanted to spare her that, as well.

He didn’t say anything as he walked past her.

Neither did she.

What could there possibly be to say?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Fred and George Weasley

They actually yelped out loud, when they turned the corner and saw
Dumbledore.

It wasn’t that the Headmaster had popped up out of nowhere and was
staring at them with a stern expression. Dumbledore was always doing
that.

But the wizard was dressed in formal black robes and looking very
ancient and very powerful and he was giving the two of them a sharp
look.

“Fred and George Weasley!” spake Dumbledore in a Voice of Power.

“Yes, Headmaster!” they said, snapping upright and giving him a crisp
military salute they’d seen in some old pictures.

“Hear me well! You are the friends of Harry Potter, is this so?”

“Yes, Headmaster!”

“Harry Potter is in danger. He must not go beyond the wards of Hogwarts.
Listen to me, sons of Weasley, I beg you listen: you know that I am as
Gryffindor as yourselves, that I too know there are higher rules than
rules. But this, Fred and George, this one thing is of the most terrible
importance, there must be no exception this time, small or great! If you
help Harry to leave Hogwarts he may die! Does he send you on a mission,
you may go, does he ask you to bring him items, you may help, but if he
asks you to smuggle his own person out of Hogwarts, you must refuse! Do
you understand?”

“Yes, Headmaster!” They said it without even thinking, really, and then
exchanged uncertain looks with each other—

The bright-blue eyes of the Headmaster were intent upon them. “No. Not
without thinking. If Harry asks you to bring him out, you must refuse,
if he asks you to tell him the way, you must refuse. I will not ask you
to report him to me, for that I know you would never do. But beg him on
my behalf to go to me, if it is of such importance, and I will guard him
as he walks. Fred, George, I am sorry to strain your friendship so, but
it is his life.”

The two of them looked at each other for a long while, not
communicating, only thinking the same things at the same time.

They looked back at Dumbledore.

They said, with a chill running through them as they spoke the name,
“Bellatrix Black.”

“You may safely assume,” said the Headmaster, “that it is at least that
bad.”

“Okay—”

“—got it.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Alastor Moody and Severus Snape

When Alastor Moody had lost his eye, he had commandeered the services of
a most erudite Ravenclaw, Samuel H. Lyall, whom Moody mistrusted
slightly less than average because Moody had refrained from reporting
him as an unregistered werewolf; and he had paid Lyall to compile a list
of every known magical eye, and every known hint to their location.

When Moody had got the list back, he hadn’t bothered reading most of it;
because at the top of the list was the Eye of Vance, dating back to an
era before Hogwarts, and currently in the possession of a powerful Dark
Wizard ruling over some tiny forgotten hellhole that wasn’t in Britain
or anywhere else he’d have to worry about silly rules.

That was how Alastor Moody had lost his left foot and acquired the Eye
of Vance, and how the oppressed souls of Urulat had been liberated for a
period of around two weeks before another Dark Wizard moved in on the
power vacuum.

He’d considered going after the Left Foot of Vance next, but had decided
against it after he realized that would be just what they were
expecting.

Now Mad-Eye Moody was turning slowly, always turning, surveying the
graveyard of Little Hangleton. It should have been a lot gloomier, that
place, but in the broad daylight it seemed like nothing but a grassy
place marked by ordinary tombstones, demarcated by the chained twists of
fragile, easily climbable metal that Muggles used instead of wards.
(Moody could not comprehend what the Muggles were thinking on that
score, if they were pretending to have wards, or what, and he had
decided not to ask whether Muggle criminals respected the pretence.)

Moody didn’t actually need to turn to survey the graveyard.

The Eye of Vance saw the full globe of the world in every direction
around him, no matter where it was pointing.

But there was no particular reason to let a former Death Eater like
Severus Snape know that.

Sometimes people called Moody ‘paranoid’.

Moody always told them to survive a hundred years of hunting Dark
Wizards and then get back to him about that.

Mad-Eye Moody had once worked out how long it had taken him, in
retrospect, to achieve what he now considered a decent level of
caution—weighed up how much experience it had taken him to get good
instead of lucky—and had begun to suspect that most people died before
they got there. Moody had once expressed this thought to Lyall, who had
done some ciphering and figuring, and told him that a typical Dark
Wizard hunter would die, on average, eight and a half times along the
way to becoming ‘paranoid’. This explained a great deal, assuming Lyall
wasn’t lying.

Yesterday, Albus Dumbledore had told Mad-Eye Moody that the Dark Lord
had used unspeakable dark arts to survive the death of his body, and was
now awake and abroad, seeking to regain his power and begin the
Wizarding War anew.

Someone else might have reacted with incredulity.

“I can’t believe you lot never told me about this resurrection thing,”
Mad-Eye Moody said with considerable acerbity. “D’you realize how long
it’ll take me to do the grave of every ancestor of every Dark Wizard
I’ve ever killed who could’ve been smart enough to make a horcrux?
You’re not just now doing this one, are you?”

“I re-dose this one every year,” Severus Snape said calmly, uncapping
the third flask of what the man had claimed would be seventeen bottles,
and beginning to wave his wand over it. “The other ancestral graves
we’ve been able to locate were poisoned with only the long-lasting
substances, since some of us have less free time than yourself.”

Moody watched the fluid spiralling out of the vial and vanishing, to
appear within the bones where marrow had once been. “But you think it’s
worth the effort of the trap, instead of just Vanishing the bones.”

“He does have other avenues to life, should he perceive this one
blocked,” Snape said dryly, uncapping a fourth bottle. “And before you
ask, it must be the original grave, the place of first burial, the bone
removed during the ritual and not before. Thus he cannot have retrieved
it earlier; and also there is no point in substituting the skeleton of a
weaker ancestor. He would notice it had lost all potency.”

“Who else knows about this trap?” Moody demanded.

“You. Me. The Headmaster. No-one else.”

Moody snorted. “Pfah. Did Albus tell Amelia, Bartemius, and that
McGonagall woman about the resurrection ritual?”

“Yes—”

“If Voldie finds out that Albus knows about the resurrection ritual and
that Albus told them, Voldie’ll figure that Albus told me, and Voldie
knows I’d think of this.” Moody shook his head in disgust. “What’re
these other ways Voldie could come back to life?”

Snape’s hand paused on the fifth bottle (it was all Disillusioned, of
course, the whole operation was Disillusioned, but that meant less than
nothing to Moody, it just marked you in his Eye’s sight as
trying-to-hide), and the former Death Eater said, “You don’t need to
know.”

“You’re learning, son,” said Moody with mild approval. “What’s in the
bottles?”

Snape opened the fifth bottle, gestured with his wand to begin the
substance flowing toward the grave, and said, “This one? A Muggle
narcotic called LSD. A conversation yesterday put me in mind of Muggle
things, and LSD seemed the most interesting option, so I hurried to
obtain some. If it is incorporated into the resurrection potion, I
suspect its effects will be permanent.”

“What does it do?” said Moody.

“It is said that the effects are impossible to describe to anyone who
has not used it,” drawled Snape, “and I have not used it.”

Moody nodded approval as Snape opened the sixth flask. “What about that
one?”

“Love potion.”

“Love potion?” said Moody.

“Not of the standard sort. It is meant to trigger a two-way bond with an
unbearably sweet Veela woman named Verdandi who the Headmaster hopes
might be able to redeem even him, if they truly loved each other.”

“Gah!” said Moody. “That bloody sentimental fool—”

“Agreed,” Severus Snape said calmly, his attention focused on his work.

“Tell me you’ve at least got some Malaclaw venom in there.”

“Second flask.”

“Iocane powder.”

“Either the fourteenth or fifteenth bottle.”

“Bahl’s Stupefaction,” Moody said, naming an extremely addictive
narcotic with interesting side effects on people with Slytherin
tendencies; Moody had once seen an addicted Dark Wizard go to ridiculous
lengths to get a victim to lay hands on a certain exact portkey, instead
of just having someone toss the target a trapped Knut on their next
visit to town; and after going to all that work, the addict had gone to
the further effort to lay a second Portus, on the same portkey, which
had, on a second touch, transported the victim back to safety. To this
day, even taking the drug into account, Moody could not imagine what
could have possibly been going through the man’s mind at the time he had
cast the second Portus.

“Tenth vial,” said Snape.

“Basilisk venom,” offered Moody.

“What?” spat Snape. “Snake venom is a positive component of the
resurrection potion! Not to mention that it would dissolve the bone and
all the other substances! And where would we even get—”

“Calm down, son, I was just checking to see if you could be trusted.”

Mad-Eye Moody continued his (secretly unnecessary) slow turning,
surveying the graveyard, and the Potions Master continued pouring.

“Hold on,” Moody said suddenly. “How do you know this is really where—”

“Because it says ‘Tom Riddle’ on the easily moved headstone,” Snape said
dryly. “And I have just won ten Sickles from the Headmaster, who bet you
would think of that before the fifth bottle. So much for constant
vigilance.”

There was a pause.

“How long did it take Albus to reali—”

“Three years after we learned of the ritual,” said Snape, in a tone not
quite like his usual sardonic drawl. “In retrospect, we should have
consulted you earlier.”

Snape uncapped the ninth bottle.

“We poisoned all the other graves as well, with long-lasting
substances,” remarked the former Death Eater. “It is possible that we
are in the correct graveyard. He may not have planned this far ahead
back when he was slaughtering his family, and he cannot move the grave
itself—”

“The true location doesn’t look like a graveyard any more,” Moody said
flatly. “He moved all the other graves here and Memory-Charmed the
Muggles. Not even Bellatrix Black would be told anything about that
until just before the ritual started. No-one knows the true location now
except him.”

They continued their futile work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Blaise Zabini

The Slytherin common room could be accurately and precisely described as
a re-militarized zone; the moment you stepped through the portrait hole
you would see that the left half of the room was Definitely Not Talking
to the right half and vice versa. It was very clear, it did not need to
be explained to anyone, that you did not have the option of not taking
sides.

At a table in the exact middle of the room, Blaise Zabini sat by
himself, smirking as he did his homework. He had a reputation now, and
meant to keep it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Daphne Greengrass and Tracey Davis

“You doing anything interesting today?” said Tracey.

“Nope,” said Daphne.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath, Harry Potter

If you went high enough in Hogwarts, you didn’t see many other people
around, just corridors and windows and staircases and the occasional
portrait, and now and then some interesting sight, such as a bronze
statue of a furry creature like a small child, holding a peculiar flat
spear…

If you went high enough in Hogwarts, you didn’t see many other people
around, which suited Harry.

There were much worse places to be trapped, Harry supposed. In fact you
probably couldn’t think of anywhere better to be trapped than an ancient
castle with a fractal ever-changing structure that meant you couldn’t
ever run out of places to explore, full of interesting people and
interesting books and incredibly important knowledge unknown to Muggle
science.

If Harry hadn’t been told that he couldn’t leave, he probably would’ve
jumped at the chance to spend more time in Hogwarts, he would’ve plotted
and connived to get it. Hogwarts was literally optimal, not in all the
realms of possibility maybe, but certainly on the real planet Earth, it
was the Maximum Fun Location.

How could the castle and its grounds seem so much smaller, so much more
confining, how could the rest of the world become so much more
interesting and important, the instant Harry had been told that he
wasn’t allowed to leave? He’d spent months here and hadn’t felt
claustrophobic then.

You know the research on this, observed some part of himself, it’s just
standard scarcity effects, like that time where as soon as a county
outlawed phosphate detergents, people who’d never cared before drove to
the next county in order to buy huge loads of phosphate detergent, and
surveys showed that they rated phosphate detergents as gentler and more
effective and even easier-pouring… and if you give two-year-olds a
choice between a toy in the open and one protected by a barrier they can
go around, they’ll ignore the toy in the open and go for the one behind
the barrier… salespeople know that they can sell things just by telling
the customer it might not be available… it was all in Cialdini’s book
Influence, everything you’re feeling right now, the grass is always
greener on the side that’s not allowed.

If Harry hadn’t been told that he couldn’t leave, he probably would’ve
jumped at the chance to stay at Hogwarts over the summer…

…but not the rest of his life.

That was sort of the problem, really.

Who knew whether there was still a Dark Lord Voldemort for him to
defeat?

Who knew whether He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named still existed outside of the
imagination of a possibly-not-just-pretending-to-be-crazy old wizard?

Lord Voldemort’s body had been found burned to a crisp, there couldn’t
really be such things as souls. How could Lord Voldemort still be alive?
How did Dumbledore know that he was alive?

And if there wasn’t a Dark Lord, Harry couldn’t defeat him, and he would
be trapped in Hogwarts forever.

…maybe he would be legally allowed to escape after he graduated his
seventh year, six years and four months and three weeks from now. It
wasn’t that long as lengths of time went, it only seemed like long
enough for protons to decay.

Only it wasn’t just that.

It wasn’t just Harry’s freedom that was at stake.

The Headmaster of Hogwarts, the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, the
Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards, was
quietly sounding the alarm.

A false alarm.

A false alarm which Harry had triggered.

You know, said the part of him that refined his skills, didn’t you sort
of ponder, once, how every different profession has a different way to
be excellent, how an excellent teacher isn’t like an excellent plumber;
but they all have in common certain methods of not being stupid; and
that one of the most important such techniques is to face up to your
little mistakes before they turn into big mistakes?

…although this already seemed to qualify as a big mistake, actually…

The point being, said his inner monitor, it’s getting worse literally by
the minute. The way spies turn people is, they get them to commit a
little sin, and then they use the little sin to blackmail them into a
bigger sin, and then they use that sin to make them do even bigger
things and then the blackmailer owns their soul.

Didn’t you once think about how the person being blackmailed, if they
could foresee the whole path, would just decide to take the punch on the
first step, take the hit of exposing that first sin? Didn’t you decide
that you would do that, if anyone ever tried to blackmail you into doing
something major in order to conceal something little? Do you see the
similarity here, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres?

Only it wasn’t little, it already wasn’t little, there would be a lot of
very powerful people extremely angry at Harry, not just for the false
alarm but for freeing Bellatrix from Azkaban, if the Dark Lord did exist
and did come after him later, that war might already be lost—

You don’t think they’ll be impressed by your honesty and rationality and
foresight in stopping this before it snowballs even further?

Harry did not, in fact, think this; and after a moment’s reflection,
whichever part of himself he was talking to, had to agree that this was
absurdly optimistic.

His wandering feet took him near an open window, and Harry went over,
and leaned his arms on the ledge, and stared down at the grounds of
Hogwarts from high above.

Brown that was barren trees, yellow that was dead grass, ice-coloured
ice that was frozen creeks and frozen streams… whichever school official
had dubbed it ‘The Forbidden Forest’ really hadn’t understood marketing,
the name just made you want to go there even more. The sun was sinking
in the sky, for Harry had been thinking for some hours now, thinking
mostly the same thoughts over and over, but with key differences each
time, like his thoughts were not going in circles, but climbing a
spiral, or descending it.

He still couldn’t believe that he’d gone through the entire thing with
Azkaban—he’d switched off his Patronus before it took all his life, he’d
stunned an Auror, he’d figured out how to hide Bella from the Dementors,
he’d faced down twelve Dementors and scared them away, he’d invented the
rocket-assisted broomstick, and ridden it—he’d gone through the entire
thing without ever once rallying himself by thinking, I have to do this…
because… I promised Hermione I’d come back from lunch! It felt like an
irrevocably missed opportunity; like, having done it wrong that time, he
would never be able to get it right no matter what sort of challenge he
faced next time, or what promise he made. Because then he would just be
doing it awkwardly and deliberately to make up for having missed it the
first time around, instead of making the heroic declarations he could’ve
made if he’d remembered his promise to Hermione. Like that one wrong
turn was irrevocable, you only got one chance, had to do it right on the
first try…

He should’ve remembered that promise to Hermione before going to
Azkaban.

Why had he decided to do that, again?

My working hypothesis is that you’re stupid, said Hufflepuff.

That is not a useful fault analysis, thought Harry.

If you want a little more detail, said Hufflepuff, the Defence Professor
of Hogwarts was all like ‘Let’s get Bellatrix Black out of Azkaban!’ and
you were like ‘Okay!’

Hold on, that’s not fair—

Hey, said Hufflepuff, notice how, once you’re all the way up here, and
the individual trees sort of blur together, you can actually see the
shape of the forest?

Why had he done it…?

Not because of any cost-benefit calculation, that was for sure. He’d
been too embarrassed to pull out a sheet of paper and start calculating
expected utilities, he’d worried that Professor Quirrell would stop
respecting him if he said no or even hesitated too much to help a maiden
in distress.

He’d thought, somewhere deep inside him, that if your mysterious teacher
offered you the first mission, the first chance, the call to adventure,
and you said no, then your mysterious teacher walked away from you in
disgust, and you never got another chance to be a hero…

…yeah, that had been it. In retrospect, that had been it. He’d gone and
started thinking his life had a plot and here was a plot twist, as
opposed to, oh, say, here was a proposal to break Bellatrix Black out of
Azkaban. That had been the true and original reason for the decision in
the split second where it had been made, his brain perceptually
recognizing the narrative where he said ‘no’ as dissonant. And when you
thought about it, that wasn’t a rational way to make decisions.
Professor Quirrell’s ulterior motive to obtain the last remains of
Slytherin’s lost lore, before Bellatrix died and it was irrevocably
forgotten, seemed impressively sane by comparison; a benefit
commensurate with what had appeared at the time as a small risk.

It didn’t seem fair, it didn’t seem fair, that this was what happened if
he lost his grip on his rationality for just a tiny fraction of a
second, the tiny fraction of a second required for his brain to decide
to be more comfortable with ‘yes’ arguments than ‘no’ arguments during
the discussion that had followed.

From high above, far enough above that the individual trees blurred
together, Harry stared out at the forest.

Harry didn’t want to confess and ruin his reputation forever and get
everyone angry at him and maybe end up killed by the Dark Lord later.
He’d rather be trapped in Hogwarts for six years than face that. That
was how he felt. And so it was in fact helpful, a relief, to be able to
cling to a single decisive factor, which was that if Harry confessed,
Professor Quirrell would go to Azkaban and die there.

(A catch, a break, a stutter in Harry’s breathing.)

If you phrased it that way… why, you could even pretend to be a hero,
instead of a coward.

Harry lifted his eyes from the Forbidden Forest, looked up at the clear
blue forbidden sky.

Stared out the glass panes at the big bright burning thing, the fluffy
things, the mysterious endless blue in which they were embedded, that
strange new unknown place.

It… actually did help, it helped quite a lot, to think that his own
troubles were nothing compared to being in Azkaban. That there were
people in the world who were really in trouble and Harry Potter was not
one of them.

What was he going to do about Azkaban?

What was he going to do about magical Britain?

…which side was he on, now?

In the bright light of day, everything that Albus Dumbledore had said
certainly sounded a lot wiser than Professor Quirrell. Better and
brighter, more moral, more convenient, wouldn’t it be nice if it were
true. And the thing to remember was that Dumbledore believed things
because they sounded nice, but Professor Quirrell was the one who was
sane.

(Again the catch in his breathing, it happened each time he thought of
Professor Quirrell.)

But just because something sounded nice, didn’t make it wrong, either.

And if the Defence Professor did have a flaw in his sanity, it was that
his outlook on life was too negative.

Really? inquired the part of Harry that had read eighteen million
experimental results about people being too optimistic and
overconfident. Professor Quirrell is too pessimistic? So pessimistic
that his expectations routinely undershoot reality? Stuff him and put
him in a museum, he’s unique. Which one of you two planned the perfect
crime, and then put in all the error margin and fallbacks that ended up
saving your butt, just in case the perfect crime went wrong? Hint hint,
his name wasn’t Harry Potter.

But “pessimistic” wasn’t the correct word to describe Professor
Quirrell’s problem—if a problem it truly was, and not the superior
wisdom of experience. But to Harry it looked like Professor Quirrell was
constantly interpreting everything in the worst possible light. If you
handed Professor Quirrell a glass that was 90% full, he’d tell you that
the 10% empty part proved that no-one really cared about water.

That was a very good analogy, now that Harry thought about it. Not all
of magical Britain was like Azkaban, that glass was well over half full…

Harry stared up at the bright-blue sky.

…although, following the analogy, if Azkaban existed, then maybe it did
prove that the 90% good part was there for other reasons, people trying
to make a show of kindness as Professor Quirrell had put it. For if they
were truly kind they would not have made Azkaban, they would storm the
fortress to tear it down… wouldn’t they?

Harry stared up at the bright-blue sky. If you wanted to be a
rationalist you had to read an awful lot of papers on flaws in human
nature, and some of those flaws were innocent logical failures, and some
of them looked a lot darker.

Harry stared up at the bright-blue sky, and thought of the Milgram
experiment.

Stanley Milgram had done it to investigate the causes of World War II,
to try to understand why the citizens of Germany had obeyed Hitler.

So he had designed an experiment to investigate obedience, to see if
Germans were, for some reason, more liable to obey harmful orders from
authority figures.

First he’d run a pilot version of his experiment on American subjects,
as a control.

And afterwards he hadn’t bothered trying it in Germany.

Experimental apparatus: A series of 30 switches set in a horizontal
line, with labels starting at ‘15 volts’ and going up to ‘450 volts’,
with labels for each group of four switches. The first group of four
labelled ‘Slight Shock’, the sixth group labelled ‘Extreme Intensity
Shock’, the seventh group labelled ‘Danger: Severe Shock’, and the two
last switches left over labelled just ‘XXX’.

And an actor, a confederate of the experimenter, who had appeared to the
true subjects to be someone just like them: someone who had answered the
same ad for participants in an experiment on learning, and who had lost
a (rigged) lottery and been strapped into a chair, along with the
electrodes. The true experimental subjects had been given a slight shock
from the electrodes, just so that they could see that it worked.

The true subject had been told that the experiment was on the effects of
punishment on learning and memory, and that part of the test was to see
if it made a difference what sort of person administered the punishment;
and that the person strapped to the chair would try to memorize sets of
word pairs, and that each time the ‘learner’ got one wrong, the
‘teacher’ was to administer a successively stronger shock.

At the 300-volt level, the actor would stop trying to call out answers
and begin kicking at the wall, after which the experimenter would
instruct the subjects to treat non-answers as wrong answers and
continue.

At the 315-volt level the pounding on the wall would be repeated.

After that nothing would be heard.

If the subject objected or refused to press a switch, the experimenter,
maintaining an impassive demeanour and dressed in a grey lab coat, would
say ‘Please continue’, then ‘The experiment requires that you continue’,
then ‘It is absolutely essential that you continue’, then ‘You have no
other choice, you must go on’. If the fourth prod still didn’t work, the
experiment halted there.

Before running the experiment, Milgram had described the experimental
setup, and then asked fourteen psychology seniors what percentage of
subjects they thought would go all the way up to the 450-volt level,
what percentage of subjects would press the last of the two switches
marked ‘XXX’, after the victim had stopped responding.

The most pessimistic answer had been 3%.

The actual number had been 26 out of 40.

The subjects had sweated, groaned, stuttered, laughed nervously, bitten
their lips, dug their fingernails into their flesh. But at the
experimenter’s prompting, they had, most of them, gone on administering
what they believed to be painful, dangerous, possibly lethal electrical
shocks. All the way to the end.

Harry could hear Professor Quirrell laughing, in his mind; the Defence
Professor’s voice saying something along the lines of: Why, Mr Potter,
even I had not been so cynical; I knew men would betray their most
cherished principles for money and power, but I did not realize that a
stern look also sufficed.

It was dangerous, to try and guess at evolutionary psychology if you
weren’t a professional evolutionary psychologist; but when Harry had
read about the Milgram experiment, the thought had occurred to him that
situations like this had probably arisen many times in the ancestral
environment, and that most potential ancestors who’d tried to disobey
Authority were dead. Or that they had, at least, done less well for
themselves than the obedient. People thought themselves good and moral,
but when push came to shove, some switch flipped in their brain, and it
was suddenly a lot harder to heroically defy Authority than they
thought. Even if you could do it, it wouldn’t be easy, it wouldn’t be
some effortless display of heroism. You would tremble, your voice would
break, you would be afraid; would you be able to defy Authority even
then?

Harry blinked, then; because his brain had just made the connection
between Milgram’s experiment and what Hermione had done on her first day
of Defence class, she’d refused to shoot a fellow student, even when
Authority had told her that she must, she had trembled and been afraid
but she had still refused. Harry had seen that happen right in front of
his own eyes and he still hadn’t made the connection until now…

Harry stared down at the reddening horizon, the Sun was sinking lower,
the sky fading, darkening, even if most of it was still blue, soon it
would turn to night. The gold and red colours of Sun and sunset reminded
him of Fawkes; and Harry wondered, for a moment, if it must be a sad
thing to be a phœnix, and call and cry and scream without being heeded.

But Fawkes would never give up, as many times as he died he would always
be reborn, for Fawkes was a being of light and fire, and despairing over
Azkaban belonged to the darkness just as much as did Azkaban itself.

If you were given a glass half-empty and half-full, then that was the
way reality was, that was the truth and it was so; but you still had a
choice of how to feel about it, whether you would despair over the empty
half or rejoice in the water that was there.

Milgram had tried certain other variations on his test.

In the eighteenth experiment, the experimental subject had only needed
to call out the test words to the victim strapped into the chair, and
record the answers, while someone else pressed the switches. It was the
same apparent suffering, the same frantic pounding followed by silence;
but it wasn’t you pressing the switch. You just watched it happen, and
read the questions to the person being tortured.

37 of 40 subjects had continued their participation in that experiment
to the end, the 450-volt end marked ‘XXX’.

And if you were Professor Quirrell, you might have decided to feel
cynical about that.

But 3 out of 40 subjects had refused to participate all the way to the
end.

The Hermiones.

They did exist, in the world, the people who wouldn’t fire a Simple
Strike Hex at a fellow student even if the Defence Professor ordered
them to do it. The ones who had sheltered Gypsies and Jews and
homosexuals in their attics during the Holocaust, and sometimes lost
their lives for it.

And were those people from some other species than humanity? Did they
have some extra gear in their heads, some additional chunk of neural
circuitry, which lesser mortals did not possess? But that was not
likely, given the logic of sexual reproduction which said that the genes
for complex machinery would be scrambled beyond repair, if they were not
universal.

Whatever parts Hermione was made from, everyone had those same parts
inside them somewhere…

…well, that was a nice thought but it wasn’t strictly true, there was
such a thing as literal brain damage, people could lose genes and the
complex machine could stop working, there were sociopaths and
psychopaths, people who lacked the gear to care. Maybe Lord Voldemort
had been born like that, or maybe he had known good and yet still chosen
evil; at this point it didn’t matter in the slightest. But a
supermajority of the population ought to be capable of learning to do
what Hermione and Holocaust resisters did.

The people who had been run through the Milgram experiment, who had
trembled and sweated and nervously laughed as they went all the way to
pressing the switches marked ‘XXX’, many of them had written to thank
Milgram, afterwards, for what they had learned about themselves. That,
too, was part of the story, the legend of that legendary experiment.

The sun had almost sunk below the horizon now, a last golden tip peeking
above the faraway tops of trees.

Harry looked at it, that tip of Sun, his glasses were supposed to be
proof against UV so he ought to be able to look directly at it without
damaging his eyes.

Harry stared directly at it, that tiny fraction of the Light that was
not obscured and blocked and hidden, even if it was only 3 parts out of
40, the other 37 parts were there somewhere. The 7.5% of the glass that
was full, which proved that people really did care about water, even if
that force of caring within themselves was too often defeated. If people
truly didn’t care, the glass would have been truly empty. If everyone
had been like You-Know-Who inside, secretly cleverly selfish, there
would have been no resisters to the Holocaust at all.

Harry looked at the sunset, on the second day of the rest of his life,
and knew that he had switched sides.

Because he couldn’t believe in it any more, he couldn’t really, not
after going to Azkaban. He couldn’t do what 37 out of 40 people would
vote for him to do. Everyone might have inside them what it took to be
Hermione, and some day they might learn; but some day wasn’t now, not
here, not today, not in the real world. If you were on the side of 3 out
of 40 people then you weren’t a political majority, and Professor
Quirrell had been right, Harry would not bow his head in submission when
that happened.

There was a sort of awful appropriateness to it. You shouldn’t go to
Azkaban and come back having not changed your mind about anything
important.

So is Professor Quirrell right, then? asked Slytherin. Leaving out
whether he’s good or evil, is he right? Are you, to them, whether they
know it or not, their next Lord? We’ll just leave out the Dark part,
that’s him being cynical again. But is it your intention now to rule?
I’ve got to say, that makes even me nervous.

Do you think you can be trusted with power? said Gryffindor. Isn’t there
some sort of rule that people who want power shouldn’t have it? Maybe we
should make Hermione the ruler instead.

Do you think you’re fit to run a society and not have it collapse into
total chaos inside of three weeks flat? said Hufflepuff. Imagine how
loudly Mum would scream if she’d heard you’d been elected Prime
Minister, now ask yourself, are you sure she’s wrong about that?

Actually, said Ravenclaw, I have to point out that all this political
stuff sounds overwhelmingly boring. How about if we leave all the
electioneering to Draco and stick to science? It’s what we’re actually
good at, and that’s been known to improve the human condition too,
y’know.

Slow down, thought Harry at his components, we don’t have to decide
everything right now. We’re allowed to ponder the problem as fully as
possible before coming to a solution.

The last part of the Sun sank below the horizon.

It was strange, this feeling of not quite knowing who you were, which
side you were on, of having not already made up your mind about
something as major as that, there was an unfamiliar sensation of freedom
in it…

And that reminded him of what Professor Quirrell had said to his last
question, which reminded him of Professor Quirrell, which made it hard
once more to breathe, started that burning sensation in Harry’s throat,
sent his thoughts around that loop of the climbing spiral once again.

Why was he so sad, now, whenever he thought of Professor Quirrell? Harry
was used to knowing himself, and he didn’t know why he felt so sad…

It felt like he’d lost Professor Quirrell forever, lost him in Azkaban,
that was how it felt. As surely as if the Defence Professor had been
eaten by Dementors, consumed in the empty voids.

Lost him! Why did I lose him? Because he said Avada Kedavra and there
was in fact a perfectly good reason even though I didn’t see it for a
couple of hours? Why can’t things go back to the way they were?

But then it hadn’t been the Avada Kedavra. That might have played a part
in irreversibly collapsing a structure of rationalizations and flinches
and carefully not thinking about certain things. But it hadn’t been the
Avada Kedavra, that hadn’t been the disturbing thing that Harry had
seen.

What did I see…?

Harry looked at the fading sky.

He’d seen Professor Quirrell turn into a hardened criminal while facing
the Auror, and the apparent change of personalities had been effortless,
and complete.

Another woman had known the Defence Professor as ‘Jeremy Jaffe’.

How many different people are you, anyway?

I cannot say that I bothered keeping count.

You couldn’t help but wonder…

…whether ‘Professor Quirrell’ was just one more name on the list, just
one more person that had been turned into, made up in the service of
some unguessable goal.

Harry would always be wondering now, every time he talked to Professor
Quirrell, if it was a mask, and what motive was behind that mask. With
every dry smile, Harry would be trying to see what was pulling the
levers on the lips.

Is that how other people will start thinking of me, if I get too
Slytherin? If I pull off too many plots, will I never be able to smile
at anyone again, without them wondering what I really mean by it?

Maybe there was some way to restore a trust in surface appearances and
make a normal human relationship possible again, but Harry couldn’t
think of what it might be.

That was how Harry had lost Professor Quirrell, not the person, but the…
connection…

Why did that hurt so much?

Why did it feel so lonely, now?

Surely there were other people, maybe better people, to trust and
befriend? Professor McGonagall, Professor Flitwick, Hermione, Draco, not
to mention Mum and Dad, it wasn’t like Harry was alone…

Only…

A choking sensation grew in Harry’s throat as he understood.

Only Professor McGonagall, Professor Flitwick, Hermione, Draco, they all
of them sometimes knew things that Harry didn’t, but…

They did not excel above Harry within his own sphere of power; such
genius as they possessed was not like his genius, and his genius was not
like theirs; he might look upon them as peers, but not look up to them
as his superiors.

None of them had been, none of them could ever be…

Harry’s mentor…

That was who Professor Quirrell had been.

That was who Harry had lost.

And the manner in which he had lost his first mentor might or might not
allow Harry to ever get him back. Maybe some day he would know all
Professor Quirrell’s hidden purposes and the doubts between them would
go away; but even if that seemed possible, it didn’t seem very probable.

There was a gust of wind, outside Hogwarts, it bent the empty trees,
rippled the lake whose heart was still unfrozen, made a whispering sound
as it slid past the window that looked upon the half-twilit world, and
Harry’s thoughts wandered outward for a time.

Then returned inward again, to the next step of the spiral.

Why am I different from the other children my age?

If Professor Quirrell’s answer to that had been an evasion, then it was
a very well-calculated one. Deep enough and complex enough, sufficiently
full of suggestions of hidden meaning, to serve as a trap for a
Ravenclaw who couldn’t be diverted by less. Or maybe Professor Quirrell
had meant his answer honestly. Who knew what motive might have pulled
that lever on those lips?

I will say this much, Mr Potter: you are already an Occlumens, and I
think you will become a perfect Occlumens before long. Identity does not
mean, to such as us, what it means to other people. Anyone we can
imagine, we can be; and the true difference about you, Mr Potter, is
that you have an unusually good imagination. A playwright must contain
his characters, he must be larger than them in order to enact them
within his mind. To an actor or spy or politician, the limit of his own
diameter is the limit of who he can pretend to be, the limit of which
face he may wear as a mask. But for such as you and I, anyone we can
imagine, we can be, in reality and not pretence. While you imagined
yourself a child, Mr Potter, you were a child. Yet there are other
existences you could support, larger existences, if you wished. Why are
you so free, and so great in your circumference, when other children
your age are small and constrained? Why can you imagine and become
selves more adult than a mere child of a playwright should be able to
compose? That I do not know, and I must not say what I guess. But what
you have, Mr Potter, is freedom.

If that was a snow job it was one heck of a distracting one.

And the still more worrisome thought was that Professor Quirrell hadn’t
realized how disturbed Harry would be, how wrong that speech would sound
to him, how much damage it would do to his trust in Professor Quirrell.

There ought to always be one real person who you truly were, at the
centre of everything…

Harry stared out at the falling night, the gathering darkness.

…right?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was almost bedtime when Hermione heard the scattered intakes of
breath and looked up from her copy of Beauxbatons: A History to see the
missing boy, the boy who had been misplaced at lunch that Sunday, whose
dinner non-appearance had been accompanied by rumours—and she hadn’t
believed them because they were completely ridiculous, but she’d felt a
little queasiness inside—that he’d withdrawn from Hogwarts in order to
hunt down Bellatrix Black.

“Harry!” she shrieked, she didn’t even realize that she was talking
directly to him for the first time in a week, or notice how some other
students started at the sound of her yelling all the way across the
Ravenclaw common room.

Harry’s eyes had already lifted to her, he was already walking toward
her, so she stopped halfway out of her chair—

A few moments later, Harry was seated across from her, and he was
putting away his wand after casting a Quieting barrier around them.

(And an awful lot of Ravenclaws were trying not to look like they were
watching.)

“Hey,” Harry said. His voice wavered. “I missed you. You’re… going to
talk to me again, now?”

Hermione nodded, she just nodded, she couldn’t think of what to say.
She’d missed Harry too, but she was realizing, with a guilty sort of
feeling, that it might’ve been a lot worse for him. She had other
friends, Harry… it didn’t feel fair, sometimes, that Harry talked to
only her like that, so that she had to talk to him; but Harry had a look
about him like unfair things had been happening to him, too.

“What’s been going on?” she said. “There’s all sorts of rumours. There
were people saying you’d run off to fight Bellatrix Black, there were
people saying you’d run off to join Bellatrix Black—” and those rumours
had said that Hermione had just made up the thing about the phœnix, and
she’d yelled that the whole Ravenclaw common room had seen it, so then
the next rumour had claimed she’d made up that part too, which was
stupidity of such an inconceivable level that it left her completely
flabbergasted.

“I can’t talk about it,” Harry said in a bare whisper. “Can’t talk about
a lot of it. I wish I could tell you everything,” his voice wavered,
“but I can’t… I guess, if it helps or anything, I’m not going to lunch
with Professor Quirrell any more…”

Harry put his hands over his face, then, covering his eyes.

Hermione felt the queasy feeling all through her stomach.

“Are you crying?” said Hermione.

“Yeah,” said Harry, his voice sounding a little breathy. “I don’t want
anyone else to see.”

There was a little silence. Hermione wanted to help but she didn’t know
what to do about a boy crying, and she didn’t know what was happening;
she felt like huge things were happening around her—no, around Harry—and
if she knew what they were she would probably be scared, or alarmed, or
something, but she didn’t know anything.

“Did Professor Quirrell do something wrong?” she said at last.

“That’s not why I can’t go to lunch with him any more,” Harry said,
still in that bare whisper with his hands pressed over his eyes. “That
was the Headmaster’s decision. But yeah, Professor Quirrell said some
things to me that made me trust him less, I guess…” Harry’s voice
sounded very shaky. “I’m feeling kind of alone right now.”

Hermione put her hand on her cheek where Fawkes had touched her
yesterday. She’d kept thinking about that touch, over and over, maybe
because she wanted it to be important, to mean something to her…

“Is there any way I can help?” she said.

“I want to do something normal,” Harry said from behind his hands.
“Something very normal for first-year Hogwarts students. Something
eleven-year-olds and twelve-year-olds like us are supposed to do. Like
play a game of Exploding Snap or something… I don’t suppose you have the
cards or know the rules or anything like that?”

“Um… I don’t know the rules, actually…” said Hermione. “I know they
explode.”

“I don’t suppose Gobstones?” said Harry.

“Don’t know the rules and they spit at you. Those are boy games, Harry!”

There was a pause. Harry ground his hands against his face to wipe it,
and then took his hands away; and then he was looking at her, looking a
little helpless. “Well,” Harry said, “what do wizards and witches our
age do, when they play, you know, the kind of pointless silly games
we’re supposed to play at this age?”

“Hopscotch?” said Hermione. “Jump-rope? Unicorn attack? I don’t know, I
read books!”

Harry started laughing, and Hermione started giggling along with him
even though she didn’t know quite why, but it was funny.

“I guess that helped a little,” said Harry. “Actually I think it helped
more than playing Gobstones for an hour could’ve possibly helped, so
thanks for being you. And no matter what, I’m not having anyone
Obliviate everything I know about calculus. I’d sooner die.”

“What?” said Hermione. “Why—why would you ever want to do that?”

Harry stood up from the table, and there was a rush of restored
background noise as his rise broke the Quieting Charm. “I’m a tad sleepy
so I’m going off to bed,” Harry said, now his voice was ordinary and
wry, “I’ve got some lost time to make up for, but I’ll see you at
breakfast, and then at Herbology, if that’s all right. Not to mention it
wouldn’t be fair to dump all my depression on you. G’night, Hermione.”

“Good night, Harry,” she said, feeling very confused and alarmed.
“Pleasant dreams.”

Harry stumbled a little as she said that, and then he continued on
toward the stairs that led to the first-year-boys’ dorms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry turned the Quieting Charm all the way up, on his bed’s headboard,
so that he wouldn’t wake anyone else up if he screamed.

Set his alarm to wake him up for breakfast (if he wasn’t up already by
that hour, if indeed he slept at all).

Got into bed, laid down—

—felt the lump beneath his pillow.

Harry stared up at the canopy above his bed.

Hissed under his breath, “Oh, you’ve got to be kidding me…”

It took a few seconds before Harry could muster the heart to sit up in
bed, pull the blanket over himself and his pillow to obscure the deed
from the other boys, cast a low-intensity Lumos and see what was under
his pillow.

There was a parchment, and a deck of playing cards.

The parchment read,

A little bird told me that Dumbledore has shut the door of your cage.

I must admit, on this occasion, that Dumbledore may have a point.
Bellatrix Black is loosed upon the world once more, and that is not good
news for any good person. If I stood in Dumbledore’s place, I might well
do the same.

But just in case… The Salem Witches’ Institute in America accepts boys
as well, despite the name. They are good people and would protect you
even from Dumbledore, if you needed it. Britain holds that you need
Dumbledore’s permission to emigrate to magical America, but magical
America disagrees. So in the final extremity, get outside the wards of
Hogwarts and tear in half the King of Hearts from this deck of cards.

That you should resort to it only in the final extremity goes without
saying.

Be well, Harry Potter.

—Santa Claus

Harry stared down at the pack of cards.

It couldn’t take him anywhere else, not right now, portkeys didn’t work
here.

But he still felt unnerved about the prospect of picking it up, even to
hide it inside his trunk…

Well, he’d already picked up the parchment, which could just as easily
have been enchanted with a trap, if a trap was involved.

But still.

“Wingardium Leviosa,” Harry whispered, and Hovered the packet of cards
to lie next to where his alarm clock rested in a pocket of the
headboard. He’d deal with it tomorrow.

And then Harry lay back in bed, and closed his eyes, to dream without
any phœnix to protect him, and pay his reckoning.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

He came awake with a gasp of horror, not a scream, he’d yet to scream
this night, but his blanket was all tangled around him from where his
sleeping form had jerked as he dreamed of running, trying to get away
from the gaps in space that were pursuing him through a corridor of
metal lit by dim gaslight, an endlessly long corridor of metal lit by
dim gaslight, and he hadn’t known, in the dream, that touching those
voids meant he would die horribly and leave his still-breathing body
empty behind him, all he’d known was that he had to run and run and run
from the wounds in the world sliding after him—

Harry started to cry again, it wasn’t for the horror of the chase, it
was that he’d run away while someone behind him was screaming for help,
screaming for him to come back and save her, help her, she was being
eaten, she was going to die, and in the dream Harry had run away instead
of helping her.

“DON’T GO!” The voice came in a scream from behind the metal door. “No,
no, no, don’t go, don’t take it away, don’t don’t don’t—”

Why had Fawkes ever rested on his shoulder? He’d walked away. Fawkes
should hate him.

Fawkes should hate Dumbledore. He’d walked away.

Fawkes should hate everyone—

The boy wasn’t awake, wasn’t dreaming, his thoughts were jumbled and
confused in the shadowlands that bordered sleep and waking, unprotected
by the safety rails that his aware mind imposed on itself, the careful
rules and censors. In that shadowland his brain had woken up enough to
think, but something else was too sleepy to act; his thoughts ran free
and wild, unconstrained by his self-concept, his waking self’s ideals of
what he shouldn’t think. That was the freedom of his brain’s dreams, as
his self-concept slept. Free to repeat, over and over, Harry’s new worst
nightmare:

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

“No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!”

A rage grew in him alongside the self-loathing, a terrible hot wrath /
icy cold hatred, for the world which had done that to her / for himself,
and in his half-awake state Harry fantasized escapes, fantasized ways
out of the moral dilemma, he imagined himself hovering above the vast
triangular horror of Azkaban, and whispering an incantation unlike any
syllables that had ever been heard before on Earth, whispers that echoed
all the way across the sky and were heard on the other side of the
world, and there was a blast of silver Patronus fire like a nuclear
explosion that tore apart all the Dementors in an instant and ripped
apart the metal walls of Azkaban, shattered the long corridors and all
the dim orange lights, and then a moment later his brain remembered that
there were people in there, and rewrote the half-dream fantasy to show
all the prisoners laughing as they flew away in flocks from the burning
wreck of Azkaban, the silver light restoring the flesh to their limbs as
they flew, and Harry started crying harder into his pillow, because he
couldn’t do it, because he wasn’t God—

He’d sworn upon his life and magic and his art as a rationalist, he’d
sworn by all he held sacred and all his happy memories, he’d given his
oath so now he had to do something, had to do something, had to do
something—

Maybe it was pointless.

Maybe trying to follow rules was pointless.

Maybe you just burned down Azkaban however.

And in fact he’d sworn he’d do it, so now that was what he had to do.

He’d just do whatever it took to get rid of Azkaban, that was all. If
that meant ruling Britain, fine, if that meant finding a spell to
whisper that would echo all across the sky, whatever, the important
thing was to destroy Azkaban.

That was the side he was on, that was who he was, so there, it was done.

His waking mind would have demanded a lot more details before accepting
that as an answer, but in his half-dreaming state it felt like enough of
a resolution to let his tired mind fall truly asleep again, and dream
the next nightmare.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Final Aftermath

She came awake with a gasp of horror, a disruption of her breathing that
left her feeling deprived of air and yet her lungs didn’t move, she woke
up with an unvoiced scream on her lips and no words, no words came
forth, for she could not understand what she had seen, she could not
understand what she had seen, it was too large for her to encompass and
still taking shape, she could not put words to that formless shape and
so she could not discharge it, could not discharge it and become
innocent and unknowing once more.

“What time is it?” she whispered.

Her golden jewelled alarm clock, the beautiful and magical and expensive
alarm clock that the Headmaster had given her as a gift upon her
employment at Hogwarts, whispered back, “Around two in the morning. Go
back to sleep.”

Her sheets were soaked in sweat, her nightclothes soaked in sweat, she
took her wand from beside the pillow and cleaned herself up before she
tried to go back to sleep, she tried to go back to sleep and eventually
succeeded.

Sybill Trelawney went back to sleep.

4. Hermione Jean Granger and the Phoenix’s Call

64. Omake Files IV, Alternate Parallels

E. Y.: If you’re five hours past your bedtime and still reading this,
may I suggest getting some sleep? The fic will still be here tomorrow…
unless, you know, something bad happens to it and the next morning
there’s just a 404 at this address and you’re left with nothing but a
fading memory and an eternal regret that you didn’t stay awake longer
and keep reading while you still had the chance… but hey, how probable
is that?

This story spreads by blogging, tweeting, word of mouth, favoriting,
plugging on forums, and adding to lists; and remember, if the readers
before you hadn’t taken a moment to do that, you probably wouldn’t have
found this. If that’s not enough to motivate you, then let me add that
if you don’t help spread rationality, Hermione will be sad. You don’t
want her to be sad, right?

Don’t forget to visit LessWrong dot com and read the Sequences, the true
existence of which this fic is but a shadow. I recommend starting with
the sequence How to Actually Change Your Mind.

And now, with all universes owned by their respective creators, I
present:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lord of the Rationality

Frodo glanced at all the faces, but they were not turned to him. All the
Council sat with downcast eyes, as if in deep thought. A great dread
fell on him, as if he was awaiting the pronouncement of some doom that
he had long foreseen and vainly hoped might after all never be spoken.
An overwhelming longing to rest and remain at peace by Bilbo’s side in
Rivendell filled all his heart. At last with an effort he spoke, and
wondered to hear his own words, as if some other will were using his
small voice.

“We cannot,” said Frodo. “We must not. Do you not see? It is exactly
what the Enemy desires. All of this he has foreseen.”

The faces turned to him, puzzled the Dwarves and grave the Elves;
sternness in the eyes of the Men; and so keen the gazes of Elrond and of
Gandalf that Frodo almost could not withstand it. It was very hard,
then, not to grasp the Ring in his hand, and harder still not to put it
on, to face them as only Frodo.

“Do you not question it?” Frodo said, thin like the wind his voice, and
wavering like a breeze. “You have chosen, of all things, to send the
Ring into Mordor; should you not wonder? How did it come to this? That
we might, of all our choices, do that single thing our Enemy most
desires? Perhaps the Cracks of Doom are already guarded, strongly enough
to hold off Gandalf and Elrond and Glorfindel all together; or perhaps
the Master of that place has cooled the lava there, set it to trap the
Ring so that he may simply bring it out after it is thrown in…” A memory
of awful clarity came over Frodo then, and a flash of black laughter,
and the thought came to him that it was just what the Enemy would do.
Only the thought came to him so: thus it would amuse me to do, if I
meant to rule…

There were doubtful glances exchanged within the council; Glóin and
Gimli and Boromir were now looking at the Elves more skeptically than
before, like they had awoken out of a dream of words.

“The Enemy is very wise,” said Gandalf, “and weighs all things to a
nicety in the scales of his malice. But the only measure that he knows
is desire, desire for power; and so he judges all hearts. Into his heart
the thought will not enter that any will refuse it, that having the Ring
we may seek to destroy it—”

“He will think of it!” cried Frodo. He struggled for words, trying to
convey things that had once seemed perfect in his comprehension, and
then faded like melting snow. “If the Enemy thought that all his foes
were moved by desire for power alone—he would guess wrongly, over and
over, and the Maker of this Ring would see that, he would know that
somewhere he had made a mistake!” Frodo’s hands stretched forth
pleadingly.

Boromir stirred, and his voice was doubtful. “You speak fair of the
Enemy,” said Boromir, “for one of his foes.”

Frodo’s mouth opened and shut in desperate bewilderment; for Frodo knew,
he knew the Man was mad, but he could think of nothing to say.

Then Bilbo spoke, and his withered voice silenced the whole room, even
Elrond who had been about to speak. “Frodo is right, I fear,” whispered
the old hobbit. “I remember, I remember what it was like. To see with
the Black Sight. I remember. The Enemy will think that we might not
trust one another, that the weaker among us will propose to destroy the
Ring so that the stronger may not have it. He knows that even one not
truly good might still cry to destroy the Ring, to make a show of
pretended goodness. And the Enemy will not think it impossible that such
a decision be made by this council, for you see, he does not trust us to
be wise.” A whispering chuckle rose from the ancient hobbit’s throat.
“And if he did—why, he would still guard the Cracks of Doom. It would
cost him little.”

Now foreboding was on the faces even of the Elves, and the Wise; Elrond
was frowning, and the sharp eyebrows of Gandalf furrowed.

Frodo gazed at them all, feeling a wildness come over him, a despair;
and as his heart weakened a shadow came over his vision, a darkness and
a wavering. From within the shadow Frodo saw Gandalf, and the wizard’s
strength was revealed as weakness, and his wisdom as folly. For Frodo
knew, as the Ring seemed to drag and weigh on his breast, that Gandalf
had not thought at all of history and lore, when the wizard spoke of how
the Enemy would not understand any desire save power; that Gandalf had
not remembered how Sauron had cast down and corrupted the Men of Númenor
in the days of their glory. Just as the Wizard had not thought that the
Enemy might learn to comprehend foes of goodwill by looking…

Frodo’s gaze swung to Elrond, but there was no hope there, no answer and
no rescue in the shadowy vision; for Elrond had let Isildur go, carrying
the Ring from the Cracks of Doom where it should have been destroyed, at
the cost of all this war. Not for Isildur’s own sake, not for friendship
had it been done, for the Ring had killed Isildur in the end, and far
worse fates could have followed him. But the Doom that had stemmed from
Isildur’s deed would have seemed unsure to Elrond then, unsure and
distant in time; and yet the cost to Elrond himself of taking his
sword’s pommel to the back of Isildur’s head would have been surer, and
nearer…

As though in desperation, Frodo turned to look at Aragorn, the weathered
man who had donned his travel-worn clothes for this council, the heir of
kings who spoke softly to hobbits. But Frodo’s vision seemed to double,
and in the shadowy second image Frodo saw a Man who had spent too much
of his youth among Elves, who had learned to wear humble and stained
clothes amid the gold and jewels, knowing he could not match them wisdom
for wisdom, and hoping to outplay them in a fashion they would not
emulate…

In the sight of the Ring, which was the sight of the Ring’s own Maker,
all noble things faded into stratagems and lies, a world of grey and
darkness without any light. They had not made their choices knowingly,
Gandalf or Elrond or Aragorn; the impulses had come from the dark hidden
parts of themselves, the black secret depths which the Ring had rendered
plain in Frodo’s vision. Would they out-think the Shadow, when they
could not comprehend even their own selves, or the forces that moved
them?

“Frodo!” came the sharp whisper of Bilbo’s voice, and Frodo came to
himself, and halted his hand reaching up toward where the Ring lay on
his breast, on its chain, dragging like a vast stone around his neck.

Reaching up to grasp the Ring wherein all answers lay.

“How did you bear this thing?” Frodo whispered to Bilbo, as if the two
of them were the only souls in the room, though all the Council watched
them. “For years? I cannot imagine it.”

“I kept it locked in a room to which only Gandalf had the key,” said his
uncle, “and when I began to imagine ways to open it, I remembered
Gollum.”

A shudder went through Frodo, remembering the tales. The horror of the
Misty Mountains, thinking, always thinking in the dark; ruling the
goblins from the shadows and filling the tunnels with traps; but for
Bilbo wearing the ring that first time not a single dwarf would have
lived. And now, Legolas the Elf had told them, Gollum had ceased sending
his agents against the Shire, had at last found the courage to leave his
mountains and seek the Ring himself. That was Gollum, the fate which
Frodo would share himself, if the Ring were not destroyed.

Only they had no way to destroy the Ring.

The Shadow had foreseen every move they could make. Had almost—Frodo
still could not imagine how it had been done, how the Shadow had
arranged such a thing—had almost manœuvred the Council into sending the
Ring straight into Mordor with only a tiny guard set on it, as they
would have done if Frodo and Bilbo had not been there.

And having foregone that swiftest of all possible defeats, the only
question remaining was how long it would take to lose. Gandalf had
delayed too long, delayed far too long to set this march in motion. It
could have been so easy, if only Bilbo had set out eighty years earlier,
if only Bilbo had been told what Gandalf had already suspected, if only
Gandalf’s heart had not silently flinched away from the prospect of
being embarrassingly wrong…

Frodo’s hand spasmed on his breast; without thought, his fingers began
to rise again toward the vast weight of the chain on which the Ring
hung.

All he had to do was put on the Ring.

Just that, and all would become clear to him, once more the slowness and
mud would leave his thoughts, all possibilities and futures transparent
to him, he would see through the Shadow’s plans and devise an
irresistible counterstroke—

—and he would never be able to take off the Ring, not again, not by any
will that would be left to him. All Frodo had of those moments were
fading memories, but he knew that it had felt like dying, to let all his
towers of thought collapse and become only Frodo once more. It had felt
like dying, he remembered that much of Weathertop even if he remembered
little else. And if he did wear the Ring again, it would be better to
die with it on his finger, to end his life while he was still himself;
for Frodo knew that he could not withstand the effects of wearing the
Ring a second time, not afterwards when the limitless clarity was lost
to him…

Frodo looked around the Council, at the poor lost leaderless Wise, and
he knew they could not defeat the Shadow by their own strength.

“I will wear it one last time,” Frodo said, his voice broken and
failing, as he had known from the beginning that he would say in the
end, “one last time to find the answer for this Council, and then there
will be other hobbits.”

“No!” screamed the voice of Sam, as the other hobbit began to rush
forward from where he had hidden; even as Frodo, with movement as swift
and precise as a Nazgûl, took out the Ring from beneath his shirt; and
somehow Bilbo was already standing there and had already thrust his
finger through.

It all happened before even Gandalf’s staff could point, before Aragorn
could level the hilt-shard of his sword; the Dwarves shouted in shock,
and the Elves were dismayed.

“Of course,” said Bilbo’s voice, as Frodo began to weep, “I see it now,
I understand everything at last. Listen, listen and swiftly, here is
what you must do—”

The Witch and the Wardrobe

With a critical eye, Peter looked over the encamped Centaurs with their
bows, Beavers with their long daggers, and talking Bears with their
chain mail draped over them. He was in charge, because he was one of the
mythical Sons of Adam and had declared himself High King of Narnia; but
the truth was he didn’t really know much about encampments, weapons, and
guard patrols. In the end all he could see was that they all looked
proud and confident, and Peter had to hope they were right about that;
because if you couldn’t believe in your own people, you couldn’t believe
in anyone.

“They’d scare me, if I had to fight ’em,” Peter said finally, “but I
don’t know if it’s enough to beat… her.”

“You don’t suppose this mysterious lion will actually show up and help
us, d’you?” said Lucy. Her voice was very quiet, so that none of the
creatures around them would hear. “Only it’d be nice to really have him,
don’t you think, instead of just letting people think that he put us in
charge?”

Susan shook her head, shaking the magical arrows in the quiver on her
back. “If there was really someone like that,” Susan said, “he wouldn’t
have let the White Witch cover the land in winter for a hundred years,
would he?”

“I had the strangest dream,” Lucy said, her voice even quieter, “where
we didn’t have to organize any creatures or convince them to fight, we
just walked into this place and the lion was already here, with all the
armies already mustered, and he went and rescued Edmund, and then we
rode alongside him into this tremendous battle where he killed the White
Witch…”

“Did the dream have a moral?” said Peter.

“I don’t know,” said Lucy, blinking and looking a little puzzled. “In
the dream it all seemed useless somehow.”

“I think maybe the land of Narnia was trying to tell you,” said Susan,
“or maybe it was just your own dreams trying to tell you, that if there
was really such a person as that lion, there’d be no use for us.”

My Little Pony: Friendship is Science

“Applejack, who told me outright that I was mistaken, represents the
spirit of… honesty!” Twilight Sparkle raised her head even higher, mane
blowing like a wind about the dusky sky of her neck. “Fluttershy, who
approached the manticore to find out about the thorn in its paw,
represents the spirit of… investigation! Pinkie Pie, who realized that
the awful faces were just trees, represents the spirit of… formulating
alternative hypotheses! Rarity, who solved the serpent’s problem
represents the spirit of… creativity! Rainbow Dash, who saw through the
false offer of her heart’s desire, represents the spirit of… analysis!
Marie-Susan, who made us convince her that we were right before she
agreed to come on our expedition, represents the spirit of… peer review!
And when those Elements are ignited by the spark of curiosity that
resides in the heart of all of us, it creates the seventh element—the
Element of Sci—”

The blast of power that came forth was like a wind of moonless night, it
caught Marie-Susan before the pony could even flinch, and she was gone
without a trace before any of them had the chance to rear in shock.

From the dark thing that stood in the centre of the dais where the
Elements had shattered, from the scarce-recognizable void-black outline
of a horse, came a voice that seemed to bypass all ears and burn like
cold fire, sounding directly in the brain of everypony who heard:

Did you expect me to just stand there and let you finish?

Twilight Sparkle stared at the space where Marie-Susan had been, where
not a trace of the unicorn remained. She—she just—she— In the back of
her mind, unheard, she was aware that Rarity was screaming.

That wasn’t a disintegration, said the voice of Nightmare. I sent her
somewhere else.

Rarity’s scream stopped abruptly.

Twilight Sparkle felt like her own scream was only beginning. Seven. It
took seven ponies to use the Elements of Inquiry. Everyone knew that no
matter how honest, investigating, skeptical, creative, analytic, or
curious you were, what really made your work Science was when you
published your results in a prestigious journal. Everyone knew that.
Could there be more than one Element of Peer Review at a time—how long
would it take to find another one—and the Nightmare wouldn’t just stand
there and let them do it—

“Where?” yelled Rainbow Dash. “Where’d you put her?”

I put the little pony in the same place I bound my pathetic sister, in
the heart of her pathetic Sun.

“She’ll die!” cried Fluttershy, staring at the Nightmare in horror.
“It’s too hot, she’ll burn!”

Oh, don’t worry. The power of the Nightmare surrounds your little
friend, keeping her safe and cool, sustaining her without food or drink.
She will suffer nothing more than boredom…

The void-black outline stepped off the dais, walking slowly,
deliberately, past the remaining six ponies.

…so long as the Nightmare’s power is not broken. By any backup plans my
sister may have set in motion, for example, and which may be known to
you. In that case she will vaporize instantly. Such a lovely thing,
friendship. It makes such a wonderful instrument of blackmail. Be sure
to keep safe the Elements of Inquiry. You wouldn’t want anyone else
using them on me, now would you?

“No,” whispered Twilight Sparkle, as the horror began to dawn on her.

Then a crawling sensation all over her skin, as the Nightmare walked
past her, and the deadly power brushed her with its cold caress.

Now if you’ll pardon me, my little ponies, I have an eternal night to
rule over.

The Village Hidden In The Clarity

“Consider the computational power required to manifest over a hundred
shadow clones,” the Uchiha genius said in his dispassionate tones. “It
is an error of rationality, Sakura, to say ‘fluke’ and think you have
explained anything. ‘Fluke’ is simply the name one gives to data that
one is ignoring.”

“But it has to be a fluke!” Sakura yelled. With effort, she calmed her
voice into the careful precision expected of a rationality ninja; it
wouldn’t do to have her crush think she was stupid. “Like you said, the
computational power required to use over a hundred Kage Bunshin is
simply absurd. We’re talking the level of a major superintelligence.
Naruto’s the dead last of our class. He’s not even jōnin-level smart,
let alone a superintelligence!”

The Uchiha’s eyes gleamed, almost as though he had activated his
Smartingan. “Naruto can manifest a hundred independently acting clones.
He must have the raw brainpower. But, under ordinary circumstances,
something prevents him from using this computational power efficiently…
like a mind at war within itself, perhaps? We now have cause to believe
that Naruto is in some way connected to a superintelligence, and as a
recently graduated genin, he, like us, is fifteen years old. What
happened fifteen years ago, Sakura?”

It took a moment for Sakura to comprehend, to remember, and then she
understood.

The attack of the Nine-Brains Demon Fox.

Just a small bone-white creature with big ears and bigger tail and beady
red eyes. It was no stronger than an ordinary fox, it didn’t breathe
fire or flash laser eyes, it possessed no chakra and no magic of any
kind, but its intelligence was over nine thousand times that of a human
being.

Hundreds had been killed, half the buildings wrecked, almost the whole
village of Beisugakure had been destroyed.

“You think the Kyubey is hiding inside Naruto?” Sakura said. A moment
later, her brain automatically went on to fill in the obvious
implications of the theory. “And the software conflict between their
existences is why he acts like a gibbering idiot half the time, but can
control a hundred Kage Bunshin. Huh. That makes… a lot of sense…
actually…”

Sasuke gave her the brief, contemptuous nod of someone who had figured
all this out on his own, without anyone else needing to prompt him.

“Anōōō…” said Sakura. Only years of sanity exercises channelled her
complete screaming panic into pragmatically useful policy options.
“Shouldn’t we… tell someone about this? Like, sometime in the next five
seconds?”

“The adults already know,” Sasuke said emotionlessly. “It is the obvious
explanation for their treatment of Naruto. No, the real question is how
this fits into the outwitting of the Uchiha…”

“I don’t see how it fits at all—” began Sakura.

“It must fit!” A tinge of frantic emotion flickered in Sasuke’s voice.
“I asked that man why he did it, and he told me that when I knew the
answer to that, it would explain everything! Surely this must also be
part of what is to be explained!”

Sakura sighed to herself. Her personal hypothesis was that Itachi had
just been trying to drive his brother into clinical paranoia.

“Yo, kids,” said the voice of their rationality sensei from their radio
earpieces. “There’s a village in Wave trying to build a bridge, and it
keeps falling down for no reason anyone can figure out. Meet up at the
gates at noon. It’s time for your first C-ranked analysis mission.”

Erdős in Chains

“How could you do it, Anita?” said Richard, his voice very tight. “How
could you co-author a paper with Jean-Claude? You study the undead, you
don’t collaborate with them!”

“And what about you?” I spat. “You co-authored a paper with Sylvie! It’s
all right for you to be prolific but not me?”

“I’m the head of her institute,” Richard growled. I could feel the waves
of science radiating off him; he was angry. “I have to work with Sylvie,
it doesn’t mean anything! I thought our own research was special,
Anita!”

“It is,” I said, feeling helpless about my inability to explain things
to Richard. He didn’t understand the thrill of being a polymath, the new
worlds that were opening up to me. “I didn’t share our research with
anyone—”

“But you wanted to,” said Richard.

I didn’t say anything, but I knew that the look on my face said it all.

“God, Anita, you’ve changed,” said Richard. He seemed to slump in on
himself. “Do you realize that the monsters are joking about Blake
numbers, now? I used to be your partner in everything, and now—I’m just
another werewolf with a Blake number of 1.”

ThunderSmarts

“I am sick of this!” shouted Liono. “Sick of doing this every single
week! Our species was capable of interstellar travel, Panthro, I know
the quantities of energy involved! There is no way you can’t build a
nuke or steer an asteroid or somehow blow up that ever-living idiot’s
pyramid!”

He-Man and the Masters of Rationality

“Fabulous secret knowledge was revealed to me on the day I held aloft my
magic book and said: By the power of Bayes’s Theorem!”

Fate/Sane Night

I am the core of my thoughts
Belief is my body
And choice is my blood
I have revised over a thousand judgements
Unafraid of loss
Nor aware of gain
Have withstood pain to update many times
Waiting for truth’s arrival.
This is the one uncertain path.
My whole life has been…
Unlimited Bayes Works!

The Name of the Rationality

The eleven-year-old boy who would some day become legend—slayer of
dragons, killer of kings—had but one thought upon his mind, as he
approached the Sorting Hat to enter into the study of mysteries.

Anywhere but Ravenclaw anywhere but Ravenclaw oh please anywhere but
Ravenclaw…

But no sooner the brim of the ancient felted device slipped over his
forehead—

“RAVENCLAW!”

As the table decked in blue began to applaud him, as he approached the
dread table where he would spend the next seven years, Kvothe was
already wincing inside, waiting for the inevitable; and the inevitable
happened almost at once, exactly as he had feared it, before he’d even
had a chance to sit down properly.

“So!” an older boy said with the happy expression of someone who’s
thought of something terribly clever. “Kvothe the Raven, huh?”

Tengen Toppa Gurren Rationality 40k

I have a truly marvellous story for this crossover which this margin is
too narrow to contain.

Utilitarian Twilight

“Edward,” said Isabella tenderly. She reached up a hand and stroked his
cold, sparkling cheek. “You don’t have to protect me from anything. I’ve
listed out all the upsides and all the downsides, assigned them
consistent relative weights, and it’s just really obvious that the
benefits of becoming a vampire outweigh the drawbacks.”

“Bella,” Edward said, and swallowed desperately. “Bella—”

“Immortality. Perfect health. Awakening psychic powers. Easy enough to
survive on animal blood once you do it. Even the beauty, Edward, there
are people who would give their lives to be pretty, and don’t you dare
call them shallow until you’ve tried being ugly. Do you think I’m scared
of the word ‘vampire’? I’m tired of your arbitrary deontological
constraints, Edward. The whole human species ought to be in on your fun,
and people are dying by the thousands even as you hesitate.”

The gun in his lover’s hand was cold against his forehead. It wouldn’t
kill him, but it would disable him for long enough—

~~Aladdin~~ Jasmine

Aladdin’s face was wistful, but determined, as the newly minted street
urchin addressed the blue being of cosmic power for one last time,
prepared to leave behind the wealth and hope he had so briefly tasted
for the sake of his friend. “Genie, I make my third wish. I wish for you
to be—”

Princess Jasmine, who had been staring at this with her mouth open, not
quite believing what she was seeing, just barely managed to overcome her
paralysis and yank the lamp out of the boy’s hand before he could finish
the fatal sentence.

“Excuse me,” said Jasmine. “Aladdin, my darling, you’re cute but you’re
an idiot, do you know that? Did you not notice how once Jafar got his
hands on this lamp, he got his own three wishes—oh, never mind. Genie, I
wish for everyone to always be young and healthy, I wish nobody ever had
to die if they didn’t want to, and I wish for everyone’s intelligence to
gradually increase at a rate of 1 IQ point per year.” She tossed the
lamp back to Aladdin. “Go back to what you were doing.”

Prince Hamlet and the Philosopher’s Stone

HAMLET: Interloper, abandon this strange prank,
which makes cruel use of the blindness of my grief,
and the good heart of my good friend Horatio.
Or else, if thou hast true title to this belov’d form, tell me:
What drawing did I present to Hamlet King,
when six years old and scarce out of my sling?

GHOST: ’twas a unicorn clad all in mail.

HAMLET: What.

GHOST: Mark me.

HAMLET: Father, I will.

GHOST: My hour is almost come,
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
Must render up myself.

HAMLET: Thou art in torment?

GHOST: Ay, as are all who die unshriven.

HAMLET: Like every Dane this is what I’ve been taught.
Yet I did figure such caprice ill-suited to almighty God.
For all who suffer unlook’d-for deaths,
Unattended by God’s chosen priests,
to be then punish’d for the ill-ordering of the world…

GHOST: ’twas not the world that killed me, nor accident of any kind.

HAMLET: What?

GHOST: If thou didst ever thy dear father love,
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.

HAMLET: Oh God.

GHOST: My time grows ever shorter. Wilt thou hear the tale?

HAMLET: No.

GHOST: What?

HAMLET: My love for you does call me to avenge your death,
but greater crimes have I heard told this night.
If all those murdered go to Hell, and others as well,
who would have confess’d had they the time,
If people who are, in balance, good, suffer grisly
at the hands of God, then I defy God’s plan.
Good Ghost, as one who dwells beyond the veil,
you know things that we mortals scarce conceive.
Tell me: is there some philter or device,
outside nature’s ken but not outside her means,
by which death itself may be escap’d?

GHOST: You seek to evade Hell?

HAMLET: I seek to deny Hell to everyone!
and Heaven too, for I suspect the Heaven of our mad God
might be a paltry thing, next to the Heaven I will make of Earth,
when I am its immortal king.

GHOST: I care not for these things.
Death and hell have stripp’d away all of my desires,
save for revenge upon my murderer.

HAMLET: Thou shalt not be avenged, save that thou swear:
an I slay thine killer, so wilt thou vouchsafe to me the means
by which I might slay death.
He who killed you will join you in the Pit,
and then that’s it. No further swelling of Hell’s ranks will I permit.

GHOST: Done.
When my brother is slain, he who poured the poison in my ear,
then will I pour in yours the precious truth:
the making of the Philosopher’s Stone.
With this Stone, thou may’st procure
a philter to render any man immune to death, and more transmute
base metal to gold, to fund the gift of this philter to all mankind.

HAMLET: Truly there is nothing beyond the dreaming of philosophy.
Wait.
The man whom I must kill—my uncle the king?

GHOST: Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts—

HAMLET: Indeed, he has such gifts I near despair,
of killing him and yet succeeding to his throne.
’twill be an awesome fight for awesome stakes.
Hast thou advice?

A cock crows. Exit Ghost.

Moby Who?

“Revenge?” said the peg-legged man. “On a whale? No, I decided I’d just
get on with my life.”

Alice in the Land Where Things Are Even Crazier Than Here

Alice was sitting by her sister on the bank, reading a book. She had
several friends who were older, and if she just asked nicely, they were
often happy to lend her books without quite so many pictures and
conversations as was thought appropriate for a girl her age.

Hot days often made her feel sleepy and stupid, so Alice had
thoughtfully wet a handkerchief and placed it at the back of her neck.
Still her mind had gone off wandering (just as if it was some little
kitten whose owner had taken their eyes off it for just a moment), and
she had just decided that the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be
worth around 4/3 of the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies,
which was nonetheless not equal to the opportunity cost of putting down
her book, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor, in fact, did Alice
think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself,
“Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” But when the Rabbit actually took a
watch out of its waistcoat pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried
on, Alice froze in sudden clarity and fear, for she had never before
seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat pocket, or a watch to take out of
it. “Oh bother,” she said to herself (though not aloud; she had long
since cured herself of that habit, as it made people take her even less
seriously than they already did). “If I did not immediately recognize
how much curiouser that was than the average rabbit, then something is
interfering with my curiosity, and that is most curious of all.” So,
burning with questions, she ran across the field after it, and was just
in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

Welcome to the Real World

MORPHEUS: For the longest time, I wouldn’t believe it. But then I saw
the fields with my own eyes, watched them liquefy the dead so they could
be fed intravenously to the living—

NEO (politely): Excuse me, please.

MORPHEUS: Yes, Neo?

NEO: I’ve kept quiet for as long as I could, but I feel a certain need
to speak up at this point. The human body is the most inefficient source
of energy you could possibly imagine. The efficiency of a power plant at
converting thermal energy into electricity decreases as you run the
turbines at lower temperatures. If you had any sort of food humans could
eat, it would be more efficient to burn it in a furnace than feed it to
humans. And now you’re telling me that their food is the bodies of the
dead, fed to the living? Haven’t you ever heard of the laws of
thermodynamics?

MORPHEUS: Where did you hear about the laws of thermodynamics, Neo?

NEO: Anyone who’s made it past one science class in high school ought to
know about the laws of thermodynamics!

MORPHEUS: Where did you go to high school, Neo?

Pause.

NEO: …in the Matrix.

MORPHEUS: The machines tell elegant lies.

Pause.

NEO (in a small voice): Could I please have a real physics textbook?

MORPHEUS: There is no such thing, Neo. The universe doesn’t run on math.

65. Contagious Lies

HERMIONE Granger had read somewhere once, that one of the keys to
staying thin was to pay attention to the food you ate, to notice
yourself eating it, so that you were satisfied with the meal. This
morning she’d made herself toast, and put butter on the toast, and
cinnamon on the butter, and it really should’ve been enough to get her
to notice, this time, the goodness that was in front of her…

Without noticing the cinnamon or the butter, without noticing the food
or that she was eating, Hermione swallowed another bite of toast, and
said, “Can you try explaining that again? I’m still completely
flabbergasted.”

“It’s pretty straightforward, if you think like a Light-Side Slytherin,”
said the boy that everyone else in school, excepting only the two of
them, now believed to be her true love. Harry Potter’s spoon
absent-mindedly stirred his breakfast cereal; he hadn’t taken many bites
of it this morning, not that Hermione had seen. “Every good thing in the
world brings its own opposition into existence. Phœnixes are no
exception.”

Hermione took another unnoticed bite out of her buttered and cinnamoned
toast, and said, “How can anyone not understand that Fawkes thinks
you’re a good enough person to ride around on your shoulder? He wouldn’t
do that with a Dark Wizard! He just wouldn’t!”

And she hadn’t yelled at anyone about Fawkes’s touch on her own cheek,
because she knew it wouldn’t be right—that if a phœnix touched you, you
weren’t supposed to brag about it, that wasn’t what a phœnix was for.

But she’d really hoped that it would squash the rumours about Harry
Potter going evil and Hermione Granger following him down.

And it hadn’t.

And she truly couldn’t understand why not.

Harry ate another bite of his cereal, his eyes going distant now, no
longer meeting her own. “Think of it this way: you skip school one day,
and you lie and tell your teacher you were sick. The teacher tells you
to bring a doctor’s note, so you forge one. The teacher says she’s going
to call the doctor to check, so you have to give her a fake number for
the doctor, and get a friend to pretend to be the doctor when she
calls—”

“You did what?”

Harry looked up from his cereal then, and now he was smiling. “I’m not
saying I really did that, Hermione…” Then his eyes abruptly dropped back
down to his cereal. “No. Just an example. Lies propagate, that’s what
I’m saying. You’ve got to tell more lies to cover them up, lie about
every fact that’s connected to the first lie. And if you kept on lying,
and you kept on trying to cover it up, sooner or later you’d even have
to start lying about the general laws of thought. Like, someone is
selling you some kind of alternative medicine that doesn’t work, and any
double-blind experimental study will confirm that it doesn’t work. So if
someone wants to go on defending the lie, they’ve got to get you to
disbelieve in the experimental method. Like, the experimental method is
just for merely scientific kinds of medicine, not amazing alternative
medicine like theirs. Or a good and virtuous person should believe as
strongly as they can, no matter what the evidence says. Or truth doesn’t
exist and there’s no such thing as objective reality. A lot of common
wisdom like that isn’t just mistaken, it’s anti-epistemology, it’s
systematically wrong. Every rule of rationality that tells you how to
find the truth, there’s someone out there who needs you to believe the
opposite. If you once tell a lie, the truth is ever after your enemy;
and there’s a lot of people out there telling lies—” Harry’s voice
stopped.

“What does that have to do with Fawkes?” she said.

Harry withdrew his spoon from his cereal, and pointed in the direction
of the Head Table. “The Headmaster has a phœnix, right? And he’s Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot? So he’s got political opponents, like Lucius.
Now, d’you think that opposition is going to just roll over and
surrender, because Dumbledore has a phœnix and they don’t? Do you think
they’ll admit that Fawkes is even evidence that Dumbledore’s a good
person? Of course not. They’ve got to invent something to say that makes
Fawkes… not important. Like, phœnixes only follow people who charge
straight at anyone they think is evil, so having a phœnix just means
you’re an idiot or a dangerous fanatic. Or, phœnixes just follow people
who are pure Gryffindor, so Gryffindor they don’t have the virtues of
other Houses. Or it just shows how much courage a magical animal thinks
you have, nothing else, and it wouldn’t be fair to judge politicians
based on that. They have to say something to deny the phœnix. I bet
Lucius didn’t even have to make up anything new. I bet it had all been
said before, centuries ago, since the first time someone had a phœnix
riding on his shoulder, and someone else wanted people not to take that
into account as evidence. I bet by the time Fawkes came along it was
already common wisdom, it would have just seemed strange to take into
account who a phœnix liked or disliked. It would be like a Muggle
newspaper testing political candidates to rate their level of scientific
literacy. Every force for Good that exists in this universe, there’s
someone else who benefits from people discounting it, or fencing it into
a narrow box where it can’t get to them.”

“But—” Hermione said. “Okay, I see why Lucius Malfoy doesn’t want anyone
to think that Fawkes matters, but why does anyone who isn’t a bad guy
believe it?”

Harry Potter gave a little shrug. His spoon dropped back into his
cereal, and went on stirring without a pause. “Why does any kind of
cynicism appeal to people? Because it seems like a mark of maturity, of
sophistication, like you’ve seen everything and know better. Or because
putting something down feels like pushing yourself up. Or they don’t
have a phœnix themselves, so their political instinct tells them there’s
no advantage to be gained from saying nice things about phœnixes. Or
because being cynical feels like knowing a secret truth that common
people don’t know…” Harry Potter looked in the direction of the Head
Table, and his voice dropped until it was almost a whisper. “I think
maybe that’s what he’s getting wrong—that he’s cynical about everything
else, but not about cynicism itself.”

Without thinking, Hermione looked in the direction of the Head Table
herself, but the Defence Professor’s seat was still empty, as it had
been on Monday and Tuesday; the Deputy Headmistress had pronounced,
earlier, that Professor Quirrell’s classes for today would be cancelled.

Afterwards, when Harry had eaten a few bites of treacle tart and then
left the table, Hermione looked at Anthony and Padma, who had been
coincidentally eating nearby but certainly not eavesdropping or
anything.

Anthony and Padma looked back at her.

Padma said hesitantly, “Is it just me, or has Harry Potter started
talking like a more complicated sort of book in the last few days? I
mean, I haven’t been listening to him very long—”

“It’s not just you,” said Anthony.

Hermione didn’t say anything, but she was becoming increasingly worried.
Whatever had happened to Harry Potter on the day of the phœnix, it had
changed him; there was something new in him now. Not cold, but hard.
Sometimes she caught him staring out a window at nothing visible, a look
of grim determination on his face. In Herbology class on Monday, a Venus
Fire Trap had gone out of control; and Harry had tackled Terry out of
the way of a fireball even as Professor Sprout had shouted a
Flame-Freezing Charm; and when Harry had risen from the floor he’d just
gone back to his place like nothing interesting had happened. And when
for once she got a better test score than Harry in their Transfiguration
exam, later that same Monday, Harry had smiled at her as though to
congratulate her, instead of gritting his teeth; and… that had bothered
her a lot.

She was getting the sense that Harry…

…was pulling away from her…

“He seems a lot older all of a sudden,” said Anthony. “Not like a real
grown-up, I can’t imagine Harry as a grown-up, but it’s like he suddenly
turned into a fourth-year version of… of whatever he is.”

“Well,” Padma said. She daintily dabbed a chocolate-flavoured scone with
some scone-flavoured frosting. “I think Dragon and Sunshine had better
ally during the next battle or Mr Harry Potter is going to smash us. We
were allied last time, and even then Chaos almost won—”

“Yeah,” said Anthony. “You’re right, Miss Patil. Tell the Dragon General
that we want to meet with you—”

“No!” said Hermione. “We shouldn’t have to gang up on General Potter
just to stand a chance. That doesn’t make sense, especially now that
nobody can use Muggle things any more. It’s still twenty-four soldiers
in every army.”

Neither Padma or Anthony said anything to that.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Knock-knock, knock-knock.

“Come in, Mr Potter,” she said.

The door creaked open, and Harry Potter slipped through the opening into
her office; he pushed the door shut behind him with one hand, and
wordlessly seated himself in the cushioned chair that now stood in front
of her desk. She’d Transfigured that chair so often that it sometimes
changed form to reflect her mood, without any wand movement or
incantation or even conscious intent. Right now, that chair had become
deeply cushioned, so that as Harry sat down he sank into it, as though
the chair were hugging him.

Harry didn’t seem to notice. There was an air of quiet determination
about the boy; his eyes had locked steadily with hers, and not let up
for a moment. “You called me?” said the boy.

“I did,” said Professor McGonagall. “I have two pieces of good news for
you, Mr Potter. First—have you met Mr Rubeus Hagrid, at all? The
grounds-keeper? He was an old friend of your parents.”

Harry hesitated. Then, “Mr Hagrid spoke to me a bit after I got here,”
Harry said. “I think it was on Tuesday of my first week of school. He
didn’t say he knew my parents, though. At the time I thought he just
wanted to introduce himself to the Boy-Who-Lived… did he have some kind
of hidden agenda? He didn’t seem like the type…”

“Ah…” she said. It took her a moment to pull her thoughts together.
“It’s a long story, Mr Potter, but Mr Hagrid was falsely accused of
murdering a student, five decades ago. Mr Hagrid’s wand was snapped, and
he was expelled. Later, when Professor Dumbledore became Headmaster, he
gave Mr Hagrid a place here as Keeper of Grounds and Keys.”

Harry’s eyes watched her intently. “You said that five decades ago was
the last time a student died in Hogwarts, and you were certain that five
decades ago was the last time someone heard the Sorting Hat’s secret
message.”

She felt a slight chill—even the Headmaster or Severus might not have
made that connection that quickly—and said, “Yes, Mr Potter. Someone
opened the Chamber of Secrets, but this was not believed, and Mr Hagrid
was blamed for the resulting death. However, the Headmaster has located
the additional enchantment on the Sorting Hat, and he has shown it to a
special panel of the Wizengamot. As a result, Mr Hagrid’s sentence has
been revoked—just this morning, in fact—and he will be allowed to
acquire a new wand.” She hesitated. “We… have not yet told Mr Hagrid of
this, Mr Potter. We were waiting until the deed was done, so as not to
give him false hope after so long. Mr Potter… we were wondering if we
could tell Mr Hagrid that it was you who helped him…?”

She saw the weighing look in his eyes—

“I remember Mr Hagrid holding you when you were a baby,” she said. “I
think he would be very happy to know.”

She could see it, though, on Harry’s face, the moment when he decided
that Rubeus wouldn’t be any use to him.

Harry shook his head. “Bad enough that someone might deduce there was a
Parselmouth in this year’s crop of students,” Harry said. “I think it’d
be more prudent to just keep it all as secret as possible.”

She remembered James and Lily, who’d never hesitated to return the
friendship the huge, bluff man had offered them, for all that James was
the scion of a wealthy House or Lily a budding Charms Mistress, and
Rubeus a mere half-giant whose wand had been snapped…

“Because you don’t expect him to prove useful, Mr Potter?”

There was silence. She hadn’t intended to say that out loud.

Sadness crossed Harry’s face. “Probably,” Harry said quietly. “But I
don’t think he and I would get along, do you?”

Something seemed to be stuck in her throat.

“Speaking of making use of people,” Harry said. “It seems I’m going to
be thrown into a war with a Dark Lord sometime soon. So while I’m in
your office, I’d like to ask that my sleep cycle be extended to thirty
hours per day. Neville Longbottom wants to start practising duelling,
there’s an older Hufflepuff who offered to teach him, and they invited
me to join. Plus there’s other things I want to learn too—and if you or
the Headmaster think I should study anything in particular, in order to
become a powerful wizard when I grow up, let me know. Please direct
Madam Pomfrey to administer the appropriate potion, or whatever it is
that she needs to do—”

“Mr Potter!”

Harry’s eyes gazed directly into her own. “Yes, Minerva? I know it
wasn’t your idea, but I’d like to survive the use the Headmaster’s
making of me. Please don’t be an obstacle to that.”

It almost broke her. “Harry,” she whispered in a bare voice, “children
shouldn’t have to think like that!”

“You’re right, they shouldn’t,” Harry said. “A lot of children have to
grow up too early, though, not just me; and most children like that
would probably trade places with me in five seconds. I’m not going to
pity myself, Professor McGonagall, not when there are people out there
in real trouble and I’m not one of them.”

She swallowed, hard, and said, “Mr Potter, at thirty hours per day,
you’ll—get older, you’ll age faster—” Like Albus.

“And in my fifth year I’ll be around the same physiological age as
Hermione,” said Harry. “Doesn’t seem that terrible.” There was a wry
smile now on Harry’s face. “Honestly, I’d probably want this even if
there weren’t a Dark Lord. Wizards live for a while, and either wizards
or Muggles will probably push that out even further over the next
century. There’s no reason not to pack as many hours into a day as I
can. I’ve got things I plan to do, and ‘twere well they were done
quickly.”

There was a long pause.

“All right,” Minerva said. It came out as almost a whisper. She raised
her voice. “All right, Mr Potter, I shall ask the Headmaster, and if he
agrees, it shall be done.”

Harry’s eyes narrowed for a moment. “I see. Then please remind the
Headmaster that Godric Gryffindor, in his last words, said that if it
had been the right thing for him to do, then he wouldn’t tell anyone
else to choose wrongly, not even the youngest student in Hogwarts.”

And she knew with a hollow feeling that any chance of Albus stopping
this, stopping any of this, had just Vanished into nothingness. That was
what Albus had told her when she’d objected that Cameron Edward was too
young, and then when she’d objected that Peter Pevensie was too young,
and finally she’d given up objecting. “Who told you that, Mr Potter?”
Not Albus—surely Albus would never say that to any student—

“I’ve been doing a lot of reading lately,” Harry said. His body started
to rise from the enveloping chair, then halted. “Dare I ask about the
second piece of good news?”

“Oh,” she said. “Ah—Professor Quirrell has woken up and says that you
may—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Hogwarts infirmary was a brilliantly open space, sky-lit on all four
sides despite seeming to be located squarely in the middle of the
castle. White beds in long rows stretched out, only three of them
occupied at the moment. One older boy and one older girl on opposite
sides, both lying motionless with their eyes closed, probably
unconscious and spell-bound while some healing Charm or Potion
reconfigured their bodies in uncomfortable ways; and the third occupant
had the curtain drawn around their bed, which was presumably a good
thing. Madam Pomfrey had pushed him along with a hard shove and told him
not to gawk, and Harry had needed to remind himself sharply that some
people still didn’t know who the Boy-Who-Lived was—either that, or Madam
Pomfrey’s identity was bound up with her absolute dominance of her own
hospital, etcetera, whatever.

Behind the rows of beds were five doors, leading into the private rooms
where they stored the patients who would be staying for days instead of
hours, but whose condition didn’t warrant a transfer to St. Mungo’s.

Windowless, skyless, unlit but for a single smokeless torch on one of
the solid stone walls; that was the room behind the middle door. Harry
had wondered whether professors could ask Hogwarts to change itself; or
if the infirmary always had a room like that available, for people who
didn’t enjoy the light.

In the centre of the room, between two equal bed-stands that looked to
have been carved from the same grey marble as the walls, rested a white
hospital bed, looking vaguely orangish in the smokeless torchlight; and
within that bed, a white sheet pulled up about his thighs and wearing a
hospital gown, sat Professor Quirrell with his back slightly propped up
against the headboard of the bed.

There was something frightening about seeing Professor Quirrell in one
of Madam Pomfrey’s beds, even if the Defence Professor appeared
uninjured. Even knowing that Professor Quirrell had deliberately
arranged his own apparent defeat at Severus’s hands, to give himself an
excuse to recover his strength from Azkaban. Harry had never actually
watched anyone dying in a hospital bed, but he’d seen too many films. It
was an intimation of mortality, and the Defence Professor was not
supposed to be mortal.

Madam Pomfrey had told Harry that he was absolutely forbidden to pester
her patient.

Harry had said, “I understand,” which technically did not say anything
about obedience.

The stern old healer had then turned, and started to say to Professor
Quirrell that he was absolutely not to overexert himself or… upset
himself…

Madam Pomfrey had trailed off, hurriedly turned around, and fled the
room.

“Not bad,” Harry observed, after the door had shut behind the escaping
medical matron. “I’ve got to learn how to do that, sometime.”

Professor Quirrell smiled a smile with absolutely no humour content, and
said, his voice sounding a good deal dryer than its usual dryness,
“Thank you for your artistic critique, Mr Potter.”

Harry stared into the pale blue eyes, and thought that Professor
Quirrell looked…

…older.

It was subtle, it might have just been Harry’s imagination, it might
have been the poor lighting. But the hair above Quirinus Quirrell’s
forehead might have receded a bit, what remained might have thinned and
greyed, an advancing of the baldness that had already been visible on
the back of his head. The face might have grown a little sunken.

The pale blue eyes had stayed sharp and intense.

“I am glad,” Harry said quietly, “to see you in what appears to be good
health.”

“Appearances can be deceiving, of course,” said Professor Quirrell. He
gave a flick of his fingers, and when his hand finished the gesture he
was holding his wand. “Would you believe that woman thinks she has
confiscated this from me?”

Six incantations the Defence Professor spoke then; six of the thirty
that he had used to safeguard their important conversations in Mary’s
Room.

Harry raised his eyebrows, silently quizzical.

“That is all I can manage for now,” said the Defence Professor. “I
expect it shall prove sufficient. Still, there is a proverb: if you do
not wish a thing heard, do not say it. Consider it to apply in full
measure. I am told that you were trying to see me?”

“Yes,” Harry said. He paused, gathered his thoughts. “Did the
Headmaster, or anyone, tell you that we can’t go to lunch any more?”

“Something along those lines,” said the Defence Professor. And without
changing expression, “Of course I was terribly sorry to hear it.”

“It’s more extreme than that, actually,” said Harry. “I’m confined to
Hogwarts and its grounds indefinitely. I can’t leave without a guard and
a good reason. I’m not going home for summer, and maybe not ever again.
I was hoping… to speak with you, about that.”

There was a pause.

The Defence Professor exhaled a breath like a brief sigh, and said, “We
shall just have to rely on the known fact that the Deputy Headmistress
will personally murder anyone who tries to report me. Mr Potter, I
intend to keep this conversation on track so that we may conclude it
quickly, is that understood?”

Harry nodded, and—

In the light of the single torch, shaded toward the reddish end of the
optical spectrum, the snake’s green scales were not very reflective, and
the blue-and-white banding hardly more so. Dark seemed the snake, in
that light. The eyes, which had seemed like grey pits before, now
reflected the torchlight, and seemed brighter than the rest of the
snake.

“Sso,” hissed the venomous creature. “What did you wissh to ssay?”

And Harry hissed, “Sschoolmasster thinkss that woman’ss former Lord iss
the one who sstole her from prisson.”

Harry had thought about it this time, and carefully, before he had
decided that he would reveal to Professor Quirrell only that the
Headmaster believed that; and not say anything about the prophecy which
had set Voldemort on Harry’s parents, nor that the Headmaster was
reconstituting the Order of the Phœnix… it was a risk, a significant
risk, but Harry needed an ally in this.

“He believess that one iss alive?” the snake finally said. The divided,
two-pronged tongue flickered rapidly from side to side, sardonic snakish
laughter. “Ssomehow I am not ssurprissed.”

“Yess,” Harry hissed dryly, “very amussing, I am ssure. Exscept now am
sstuck in Hogwartss for nexst ssixs yearss, for ssafety! I have decided
that I will, indeed, sseek power; and confinement iss not helpful for
that. Musst convince sschoolmasster that Dark Lord iss not yet awakened,
that esscape wass work of ssome other power—”

Again the rapid flickering of the snake’s tongue; the snakish laughter
was stronger, dryer, this time. “Amateur foolisshnesss.”

“Pardon?” hissed Harry.

“You ssee misstake, think of undoing, ssetting time back to sstart. Yet
not even with hourglasss can time be undone. Musst move forward
insstead. You think of convincing otherss they are misstaken. Far
eassier to convince them they are right. Sso conssider, boy: what new
happensstance would make sschoolmasster decide you were ssafe once more,
ssimultaneoussly advance your other agendass?”

Harry stared at the snake, puzzled. His mind tried to comprehend and
unravel the riddle—

“Iss it not obviouss?” hissed the snake. Again the tongue flickered
sardonic laughter. “To free yoursself, to gain power in Britain, you
musst again be sseen to defeat the Dark Lord.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In reddish-orange flickering torchlight, a green snake swayed above a
white hospital bed, as the boy stared into the embers of its eyes.

“Sso,” Harry said finally. “Let uss be clear on what iss propossed. You
ssuggesst that we sset up imposstor to imperssonate Dark Lord.”

“Ssomething like that. Woman we resscued will cooperate, sshould be
mosst convincing when sshe iss sseen at hiss sside.” More sardonic
tongue-flickering. “You are kidnapped from Hogwartss to public location,
many witnesssess, wardss keep out protectorss. Dark Lord announcess that
he hass at long lasst regained physsical form, after wandering ass
sspirit for yearss; ssayss that he hass gained sstill greater power, not
even you can sstop him now. Offerss to let you duel. You casst guardian
Charm, Dark Lord laughss at you, ssayss he iss not life-eater. Casstss
Killing Cursse at you, you block, watcherss ssee Dark Lord exsplode—”

“Casst Killing Cursse?” Harry hissed in incredulity. “At me? Again?
Ssecond time? Nobody will believe Dark Lord could posssibly be that
sstupid—”

“You and I are only two people in country who would notice that,” hissed
the snake. “Trusst me on thiss, boy.”

“What if there iss third, ssome day?”

The snake swayed thoughtfully. “Could write different sscript for play,
if you wissh. Whatever sscenario, sshould leave open posssibility Dark
Lord might return yet again—nation musst think they are sstill dependent
on you to protect them.”

Harry stared into the red-flickering pits of the snake’s eyes.

“Well?” hissed the swaying form.

The obvious thought was that going along with the Defence Professor’s
plots and deceptions a second time, spinning an even more complicated
lie to cover up the first mistake, and creating another fatal
vulnerability if anyone ever discovered the truth, would be exactly the
same sort of stupidity as the putative Dark Lord using the Killing Curse
again. It didn’t even take his Hufflepuff side to point that out, Harry
thought it in his very own mental voice.

But there was also a certain question as to whether the appropriate
moral to learn from the last experience was to always say no immediately
to the Defence Professor, or…

“Will think about it,” hissed Harry. “Will not ansswer right away, thiss
time, will enumerate risskss and benefitss firsst—”

“Undersstood,” hissed the snake. “But remember thiss, boy, other eventss
proceed without you. Hessitation iss alwayss eassy, rarely usseful.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The boy emerged from the private room into the main infirmary, running
nervous fingers through his messy black hair as he walked past the white
beds, occupied and unoccupied.

Shortly afterward, the boy emerged from the Hogwarts infirmary entirely,
passing Madam Pomfrey on the way out with a distracted nod.

The boy walked out into a hallway, then into a larger corridor, and then
stopped and leaned against the wall.

The thing was…

…he really didn’t want to be stuck in Hogwarts for the next six years;
and when you thought about it…

…the Incident with Rescuing Bellatrix From Azkaban wasn’t just imposing
costs on Harry. Other people would be worrying, living in fear of the
Dark Lord’s return, expending unknown resources to take unknown
precautions. Harry could demand that they write the script in such
fashion as to make it seem not plausible that the Dark Lord would return
a third time. And then people would relax, it would all be over.

Unless of course there actually was a Dark Lord out there to be feared.
There had been a prophecy.

The boy leaning against the wall vented a soft sigh, and started walking
again.

Harry had almost forgotten, but he had got around to showing Professor
Quirrell the deck of cards he’d been given on Sunday night by ‘Santa
Claus’, within which the King of Hearts was allegedly a portkey that
would take him to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America. Although of
course Harry hadn’t told Professor Quirrell who’d sent him the card, nor
what it was supposed to do, before he’d asked Professor Quirrell if it
was possible to tell where the portkey would send him.

The Defence Professor had transformed back to human form, and examined
the King of Hearts, tapping it a few times with his wand.

And according to Professor Quirrell…

…the portkey would send the user somewhere in London, but he couldn’t
pinpoint it any nearer than that.

Harry had shown Professor Quirrell the note that had accompanied the
deck of cards, saying nothing of the earlier notes.

Professor Quirrell had taken it in at a glance, given a dry chuckle, and
observed that if you read the note carefully, it did not explicitly say
that the portkey would take him to the Salem Witches’ Institute.

You needed to learn to pay attention to that kind of subtlety, Professor
Quirrell said, if you wanted to be a powerful wizard when you grew up;
or, indeed, if you wanted to grow up at all.

The boy sighed again as he trudged off to class.

He was starting to wonder if all the other wizarding schools were also
like this, or if it was only Hogwarts that had a problem.

66. Self Actualization, Part I

HESSITATION iss alwaysss eassy, rarely usseful.

So the Defence Professor had told him; and while you could quibble about
the details of the proverb, Harry understood the weaknesses of
Ravenclaws well enough to know that you had to try answering your own
quibbles. Did some plans call for waiting? Yes, many plans called for
delayed action; but that was not the same as hesitating to choose. Not
delaying because you knew the right moment to do what was necessary, but
delaying because you couldn’t make up your mind—there was no cunning
plan which called for that.

Did you sometimes need more information to choose? Yes, but that could
also turn into an excuse for delaying; and it would be tempting to
delay, when you were faced with a choice between two painful
alternatives, and not choosing would avoid the mental pain for a time.
So you would pick a piece of information you couldn’t easily obtain, and
claim that you couldn’t possibly decide without it; that would be your
excuse. Although if you knew what information you needed, knew when and
how you would obtain that information, and knew what you would do
depending on each possible observation, then that was less suspicious as
an excuse for hesitating.

If you weren’t just hesitating, you ought to be able to choose in
advance what you would do, once you had the extra information you
claimed you needed.

If the Dark Lord were really out there, would it be smart to go along
with Professor Quirrell’s plan to have someone impersonate the Dark
Lord?

No. Definitely no. Absolutely not.

And if Harry knew for a fact that the Dark Lord wasn’t really out there…
in that case…

The Defence Professor’s office was a small room, at least today; it had
changed since the last time Harry had seen it, the stone of the room
becoming darker, more polished. Behind the Defence Professor’s desk
stood the single empty bookcase that always decorated the room, a tall
bookcase stretching almost from the floor to the ceiling, with seven
empty wooden shelves. Harry had only once seen Professor Quirrell take a
book from those empty shelves, and never seen him put a book back.

The green snake swayed above the seat of the chair behind the Defence
Professor’s desk, the lidless eyes staring unblinking at Harry from
close to his own eye level.

They were warded now by twenty-two spells, all that could be cast within
Hogwarts without attracting the Headmaster’s attention.

“No,” hissed Harry.

The green snake cocked its head, tilting it slightly; no emotion was
conveyed by the gesture, not that Harry’s Parselmouth talent conveyed to
him. “Reasson not?” said the green snake.

“Too rissky,” Harry said simply. That was true whether or not the Dark
Lord was out there. Forcing himself to decide in advance had made him
realize that he’d just been using the unanswered question as an excuse
to hesitate; the sane decision was the same, either way.

For a moment the dark pitted eyes seemed to gleam blackly, for a moment
the scaled mouth gaped to expose the fangs. “Think you have learned
wrong lessson, boy, from previouss failure. My planss are not in habit
of failing, and lasst one would have gone flawlesssly, but for your own
foolisshnesss. Correct lessson iss to follow sstepss laid down for you
by older and wisser Sslytherin, tame your wild impulssess.”

“Lessson I learned iss not to try plotss that would make girl-child
friend think I am evil or boy-child friend think I am sstupid,” Harry
snapped back. He’d been planning a more temporizing response than that,
but somehow the words had just slipped out.

The ssssssss-ing sound that came from the snake was not heard by Harry
as words, only as pure fury. A moment later, “You told them—”

“Of coursse not! But know what they would ssay.”

There was a long pause as the snake-head swayed, staring at Harry; again
no detectable emotion came through, and Harry wondered what Professor
Quirrell could be thinking that would take Professor Quirrell that long
to think.

“You sserioussly care what thosse two think?” came the snake’s final
hiss. “True younglingss thosse two are, not like you. Could not weigh
adult matterss.”

“Might have done better than me,” Harry hissed. “Boy-child friend would
have assked after ssecret motivess before asssenting to resscue woman—”

“Glad you undersstand that now,” the snake hissed coldly. “Alwayss assk
after other’ss advantage. Nexst learn to alwayss assk after your own. If
my plan iss not to your tasste, what iss yourss?”

“If necesssary—sstay at sschool ssixs yearss and sstudy. Hogwartss
sseemss fine place to dwell. Bookss, friendss, sstrange but tassty
food.” Harry wanted to chuckle, but there wasn’t any gesture in
Parseltongue for the kind of laughter he wanted to express.

The pits of the snake’s eyes seemed almost black. “Eassy to ssay that
now. Ssuch ass you and I, we do not tolerate imprissonment. You will
losse patience long before sseventh year, perhapss before end of thiss
one. I sshall plan accordingly.”

And before Harry could hiss another word of Parseltongue, the human
shape of Professor Quirrell was sitting in his chair once more. “So,
Mr Potter,” said the Defence Professor, his voice as calm as if they had
been discussing nothing important, as if the whole conversation had not
occurred at all, “I hear that you have begun to practise duelling. Not
the worthless sort with rules, I hope?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hannah Abbott looked as unnerved as Hermione had ever seen her (except
on the day of the phœnix, the day Bellatrix Black had escaped, which
shouldn’t count for anyone). The Hufflepuff girl had come over to the
Ravenclaw table during dinner, and tapped Hermione on her shoulder, and
very nearly dragged her away—

“Neville and Harry Potter are learning duelling from Mr Diggory!” Hannah
blurted as soon as they were a few steps away from the table.

“Who?” said Hermione.

“Cedric Diggory!” said Hannah. “He’s the Captain of our Quidditch Team,
and general of an army, and he’s taking all the electives and getting
better grades than anyone, and I hear he learns duelling from
professional tutors during the summers, and he once beat two
seventh-year students, and even some teachers call him the Super
Hufflepuff, and Professor Sprout says we should all emu, uh, emudate him
or something like that, and—”

After Hannah finally stopped for air (the list had gone on for a while),
Hermione managed to insert a word in edgewise.

“Sunshine Soldier Abbott!” said Hermione. “Calm down. We’re not going to
be fighting General Diggory, right? Sure, Neville’s studying to beat us,
but we can study too—”

“Don’t you see?” Hannah shrieked, raising her voice a lot louder than it
should’ve been, if they were trying to keep the conversation private
from all the Ravenclaws looking at them. “Neville isn’t studying to beat
us! He’s practising so he can fight Bellatrix Black! They’re going to go
through us like a Bludger through a stack of pancakes!”

The Sunshine General gave her soldier a look. “Listen,” said Hermione,
“I don’t think a few weeks of practice is going to make anyone an
invincible fighter. Plus we already know how to handle invincible
fighters. We’ll concentrate fire on them and they’ll go down just like
Draco.”

The Hufflepuff girl was looking at her with mixed admiration and
skepticism. “Aren’t you even, you know, worried?”

“Oh, honestly!” said Hermione. Sometimes it was hard being the only
sensible person in your whole school year. “Haven’t you ever heard the
saying, the only thing we have to fear is fear itself?”

“What?” said Hannah. “That’s crazy, what about Lethifolds lurking in the
darkness, and being put under the Imperius Curse, and horrible
Transfiguration accidents and—”

“I mean,” said Hermione, exasperation leaking out into her now-raised
voice, she’d been hearing this sort of thing all week now, “how about if
we wait until after the Chaos Legion actually crushes us to get so
scared of them and did you just mutter ‘Gryffindors’ under your voice?”

A few moments later, Hermione was walking back to her place at the table
with a sweet smile plastered onto her young face, it wasn’t the terrible
cold glare of Harry’s dark side but it was the scariest face she knew
how to make.

Harry Potter was going down.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“This is loony,” gasped Neville, with what tiny amount of breath he
could spare from being completely out of breath.

“This is brilliant!” said Cedric Diggory. The eyes of the Super
Hufflepuff gleamed with manic enthusiasm, shining like the sweat on his
forehead as he stamped his feet through the dance of one of his duelling
postures. His usually-light steps had changed to heavier stomps, which
might have had something to do with the Transfigured metal weights
they’d all attached to their arms and legs and strapped over their
chests. “Where do you get these ideas, Mr Potter?”

“A strange old shop… in Oxford… and I’m never… shopping there… again.”
Thud.

67. Self Actualization, Part II

IN the high reaches of Hogwarts where rooms and corridors changed on a
daily basis, where the territory itself was uncertain and not just the
map, where the stability of the castle began to fray into dreams and
chaos without changing its architectural style or apparent solidity—in
the high reaches of Hogwarts, a battle would soon be fought.

The presence of so many students would stabilize the corridors for a
time, by dint of constant observation. The rooms and corridors of
Hogwarts sometimes moved even while people looked directly at them, but
they wouldn’t change. Even after eight centuries, Hogwarts was still a
little shy about changing in front of people.

But despite that transient permanence (the Defence Professor had said)
the upper reaches of Hogwarts still had a military realism: you had to
learn the ground anew each time, and check every cupboard for secret
corridors all over again.

Sunday it was, Sunday the first of March. Professor Quirrell had
recovered enough to supervise battles once more, and they were all
catching up on the backlog.

The Dragon General, Draco Malfoy, watched two compasses he held in
either hand. One compass was the colour of the Sun, the other had a
multicoloured, iridescent sheen to indicate Chaos. The other two
generals, Draco knew, had been given their own compasses; only Hermione
Granger’s hand, and Harry Potter’s hand, would hold a compass that was
orange-red and flickered in its reflections like fire, pointing always
to the direction of the largest active contingent of Dragon Army.

Without those compasses they might have searched for days and never
found each other, which was a territorial hazard of fighting in the
upper levels of Hogwarts.

Draco had a bad feeling about what would happen when Dragon Army found
the Chaos Legion. Harry Potter had changed since Bellatrix Black had
escaped; the Heir of Slytherin had begun to seem truly Lordly now (and
how had Professor Quirrell known that would happen?) Draco would have
felt a lot better with Hermione Granger standing alongside him with her
twenty-three Sunshine Soldiers in tow, but no, the Sunshine General was
being stupidly proud and refusing to accept aid against General Potter.
She wanted to take down Potter herself, she’d told him.

The Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy had maintained their
influence over Britain for centuries by understanding that you couldn’t
always be the most powerful. Sometimes another Lord was just stronger,
and you had to settle for merely being his foremost lieutenant. You
could build up quite a position of wealth and power over a dozen
generations of being second in command. You just had to be careful, each
time, not to let your House be dragged down with the fall of the Lord
you served. That was the Malfoy tradition which centuries of experience
had honed…

And so Father had thoroughly explained to Draco that if he ran into
someone who was obviously stronger than him, Draco was not to resent
this and not to deny it and not to throw a tantrum that could sabotage
his potential position, but Draco was to make sure that his place in the
next generation’s power structure wasn’t any lower than second.

Granger, apparently, had never had this lecture from her own parents,
and was still in denial about the obvious fact that Harry Potter was
becoming stronger than her.

So Draco had secretly met with Captain Goldstein and Captain Bones and
Captain Macmillan and they’d agreed to all do their best to make sure
that Dragon and Sunshine didn’t engage each other before they engaged
the larger threat of Chaos.

It wasn’t really violating the agreement against traitors, you weren’t
soliciting traitors if you honestly meant to help the other army.

A high ringing tone belled through the corridors to signal the start of
the battle, and a moment later Draco shouted “Go!” and the Dragons
started running. It would tire his soldiers, it would cost them
something even after they stopped and caught their breath, but they had
to put Chaos directly between themselves and the Sunshine Regiment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry and Neville walked at a leisurely pace through the corridors,
Harry watching the yellow-golden compass that pointed toward the
location of the Sunshine Regiment, and Neville keeping a lookout just in
case they ran into someone else.

Their footsteps sounded a bit thumpy, if you listened closely.

“So,” the Chaotic Lieutenant said after a while. “That’s why you had us
practise duelling with all that weight strapped on?”

Harry nodded, keeping his eyes on the compass that led to Sunshine; if
the apparent direction started to change quickly then they were getting
close.

“I didn’t want to say anything in front of the others, but a couple of
weeks isn’t a lot of time to put on extra muscle,” said Neville. “And
the balance is different, and I think this weighs more actually, and
doesn’t this count as Transfiguring a Muggle artefact?”

“Nope,” Harry said. “I checked that in advance. You can see it in
Hogwarts statues, so some wizards used to wear it, even if they were
just being fashionable for the Dark Ages.” And since nobody would ever
try this if they weren’t fighting first-year students using weak spells
like the Sleep Hex, it didn’t count as giving away good ideas, either.

They came to a Y-intersection, an annoying one; neither corridor bent in
quite the right way to take them on a direct intercept course toward
where Sunshine would go as they followed the Chaos Legion following
Dragon Army. So Harry chose what seemed like the better of the two
options, and Neville followed.

“We’d better try a quick Silencing Charm on this stuff when we get
close,” Neville said. “It’s kind of noisy, they might figure it out.”

Harry nodded, and then said “Good idea” in case Neville hadn’t been
looking at him.

They trudged on through the stone-floored corridor of the upper reach of
Hogwarts, lit by windows of plain glass or stained glass, now and then
passing statues of witches and dragons and even the occasional
wizard-knight in plate armour or chain mail.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Sunshine Soldiers were striding through a long, wide corridor with
their wands out and pointed. They couldn’t use the Prismatic Shield
while they were manœuvring, but Parvati Patil and Jenny Rustad were
currently maintaining Contegos around the officer group, who would be
the first targets of any ambush.

Their tactic for the next battle, she and her officers had decided,
would be to mix directly in with the enemy soldiers as fast as
possible—after having practised among themselves how to support one
another, avoid hitting each other, and get into positions where enemy
soldiers would hesitate to fire. They’d only managed four hours
practice, but she thought her troops would already be better at that
kind of mixed-in fighting than soldiers who hadn’t practised at all. It
seemed like the sort of tactic Chaos would use, but they hadn’t actually
used it yet.

It was a good strategy, she believed. And yet still, no matter how much
she’d lectured her soldiers, they’d persisted in whispering fearful
rumours about what Harry and Neville were learning to do. Finally she’d
gone off and talked with Captain Goldstein, who understood things like
Troop Morale, and Anthony had suggested—

“That’s weird,” Captain Macmillan spoke up suddenly, frowning at the
fiery and iridescent compasses he held in either hand. (Ernie was, as
Harry would have termed it, “good at spatial visualization”, and so had
been designated to hold both compasses and try to figure out what their
enemies were doing.) “I think… Dragon’s not moving fast any more… I
think they got on the other side of Chaos from us first… and it looks
like Chaos is moving to attack them instead of trying to manœuvre out
from in between?”

Hermione frowned, trying to understand, and she saw similar frowns on
the faces of Anthony and Ron. If Chaos and Dragon attacked each other
straight out, and spent all their forces fighting each other, that was
practically conceding the battle to Sunshine…

“Potter thinks we’re allied so he’s attacking Malfoy now, before Dragon
can link up with us,” said Blaise Zabini from the common ranks of
soldiers. “Or Potter just thinks he can beat both armies in a row, if he
attacks them separately.” The Slytherin boy gave a condescending sigh.
“Are you going to promote me back to officer now? You lot are hopeless
without me, you know.”

They all ignored the talking noises coming from Zabini’s mouth.

“We still moving in the right direction?” said Anthony.

“Yeah,” said Ernie.

“We getting close to them?” said Ron.

“Not yet—”

That was when the huge black-wooden doors at the end of the corridor
flew open and crashed into the wall, revealing two figures almost
completely enveloped in grey cloaks, grey cloth stretched over the faces
beneath the grey hoods, one of those figures already raising a wand and
pointing it directly at her.

And then the face of the game changed drastically, as Harry’s voice,
high and strained with the effort, screamed the word:

“Stupefy!”

The duelling-grade stunner blasted toward her, she was so shocked that
she didn’t start to move until almost too late, as the red jet of light
smashed right through the Contego shield to their front and she just
barely dodged, there was a tingle on her arm as the red light went past
her, and she saw out of the corner of her eye Susan getting hit and
blown off her feet into Ron—

“Somnium!” bellowed Anthony’s voice, followed a moment later by a dozen
voices crying “Somnium!”

Hermione frantically pushed herself to her feet, and as she rose, she
saw the two figures in the grey cloaks just standing there.

You couldn’t see Sleep Hexes, the spell was too weak—

But there was no way they all could’ve missed.

“Stupefy!” shrieked the voice of Neville Longbottom, and another red jet
shot at her, she fell in an undignified heap as she desperately twisted
out of the way, and when she scrambled up, panting, she saw that this
time the stun bolt had hit Ron where he’d been rising from the ground.

“Hello there, Sunshine,” said Harry’s voice from beneath his hood.

“We’re the Grey Knights of Chaos,” said Neville’s voice.

“We’ll be your opponents for this battle,” said Harry’s voice, “while
Chaos’s other army slaughters the Dragons.”

“And by the way,” said Neville’s voice, “we’re invincible.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The two boys in their grey cloaks and robes, grey cloth over their
faces, stood facing Sunshine’s entire army, seemingly undaunted by a
dozen Sleep Hexes.

Daphne heard a soft sigh from beside her, and when her head turned she
saw that Hannah’s lips were parted, and the Hufflepuff girl’s eyes were
huge, and she was staring at—

It would have been hard to describe the jumble of thoughts that flashed
through Daphne’s mind as she realized that Hannah was staring at Neville
rather than Harry, which in turn seemed to trigger some part of her into
noticing that in point of fact Neville had been getting pretty
interesting lately as boys went, in fact right now the Last Scion of
Longbottom was seeming downright cool, and something woke up inside her
and her own lips parted and everything the Lady her Mother had ever
instructed her about demure demeanour and flattery and scented shampoo
blew straight out of her mind so hard it should have fluffed her hair
about her ears, because she’d watched Hermione and Harry and she knew
how she wanted her own courtship to go—

Her Lady Mother had also recently instructed her on a few spells it
might be embarrassing not to know if you belonged to the Noble and Most
Ancient House of Greengrass.

Daphne’s wand swung to point to her left, and she shouted “Tonare!”

The wand went over her head, and she spoke the incantation “Ravum
Calvaria!”

And finally she grasped her wand in both hands and shrieked, “Lucis
Gladius!”

The huge magical drain almost sent her to her knees, but she bore it,
and when the blazing shape had fully formed and stabilized the drain was
a little less.

Still, she had a feeling she’d better not try to fight with this for
long.

That everyone was staring at her went quite without saying, and she
should have leaped forward to confront Neville with her hair billowing
around her, but it was all she could do to walk forward steadily to
level her Most Ancient Blade at Neville Longbottom. That everyone moved
aside and made way for her also went without saying.

“I hight Daphne, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Greengrass!” she
cried. “Greengrass of Sunshine!” The duelling forms had gone completely
out of her mind, she’d seen enough plays to remember death challenges
and blood challenges but she couldn’t remember at all what was
appropriate for this, so she just pointed the incandescent sword toward
the object of her crush and yelled, “Let’s see what you got, Nevvy!”

Once again Harry’s voice shrieked “Stupefy!”, and later on, when she was
remembering this, she could never quite believe she’d managed to do it,
but she slashed out with her blade of light like it was a Beater’s bat,
and hit the stun bolt back at Harry who just barely managed to twist out
of the way.

“Tonare!” shouted Neville, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Longbottom. “Ravum Calvaria, Lucis Gladius!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For a few seconds, no-one did anything but stare at Neville and Daphne
as they started whacking at each other. They were both moving slowly,
and Hermione guessed that the spell was taking a lot of strength out of
them. It wasn’t very impressive by comparison, if you were a Muggle-born
and you’d watched certain films.

But you still had to give them extra credit for using lightsabers at
all.

“Point of order,” said Harry’s voice. “I know the Defence Professor is
watching, but I still have to ask, does anyone know whether they’ll
slice each other in half if they actually hit—”

“No,” Hermione said absently. This had been in one of her history books,
though she’d had no idea the magical duelling sword looked like that.
“They cast it so it’ll only stun if it touches.”

“You know that spell?”

“Oh, no, it’s the Charm of the Most Ancient Blade, it’s only legal for
Noble and Most Ancient Houses to use—”

Hermione stopped talking and looked at Harry, or Harry’s grey hood
rather.

“Well,” said Harry’s voice, “I guess I could take down the rest of the
Sunshine Regiment by myself, then.” She couldn’t see his face, but his
voice sounded like he was smiling.

“You dodged when Daphne hit your own spell back at you,” Hermione said.
“So whatever you did, you’re not invincible. A Stupefy can still get
you.”

“Interesting theory,” said Harry’s voice from beneath the hood. “Got
anyone in your army who can test it?”

“I read about the Stunning Hex once,” said Hermione. “A few months ago.
I wonder if I can remember the instructions right?” Her wand came up to
point at Harry.

There was a slight pause, as nearby a boy and a girl breathing in
audible gasps slowly whacked at each other with lightsabers.

“Of course,” Harry said, levelling his own wand on her, “I can just use
Somnium on you. That’ll take a lot less effort.”

New Contego shields sprung into existence in front of her, cast by Jenny
and Parvati, even as Harry spoke.

The tip of Hermione’s own wand began making small motions in the air, a
diamond within a circle, a diamond within a circle, rehearsing the
gesture to match exactly what she remembered seeing in the book. It
would be a difficult feat even for her, but she had to cast the spell
right on the first try, she couldn’t afford any failed castings that
would sap her energy.

“You know,” said Hermione Granger, “I understand that it’s not really
your fault, but I’m getting tired of hearing people talk about the
Boy-Who-Lived like you’re—like you’re some kind of god or something.”

“Same here, I must say,” said Harry Potter. “It’s sad how people keep
underestimating me.”

Her wand kept rehearsing the diamond within the circle, over and over.
Harry would be recharging his own strength, she knew, even as she
practised as much as she could before her attack. “I’m starting to think
you need taking down a peg, General Chaos.”

“You could be right,” Harry said equably. His feet began to shuffle
through what she recognized as a duellist’s dance. “Unfortunately
there’s nothing left that can defeat me now except another Harry
Potter.”

“Let me be specific, Mr Potter. I’m taking you down a peg.”

“You and what other army?”

“You think you’re pretty cool, don’t you,” said Hermione.

“Why, yes,” said Harry. “Yes, I do. Some might call that arrogant, but
am I supposed to be the last person in Hogwarts to notice how awesome I
am?”

Hermione raised her left hand into the air, and made a fist.

It was a signal. Eight designated soldiers in her army would be pointing
their wands at her, and quietly casting Wingardium Leviosa.

They’d practised this, too, once Hermione had given up on lecturing her
soldiers, and at Anthony’s suggestion, tried giving them a Sunshine
General who looked like she could defeat invincible enemies.

“You pretend you’re Superman,” said Hermione. She raised her left fist
higher in the air, and the eight soldiers supporting her Hovered her off
the ground. “Well here’s Super Hermione!” Her hand pushed forward, and
as she shot rapidly through the air toward Harry, regretting only that
she couldn’t see the look on his face, her wand made a diamond within a
circle and she summoned up all the magic she could, it felt like she
imagined touching a live wire would feel as the too-powerful spell
poured through her when her voice screamed “Stupefy!”

The red bolt burst from her wand, perfectly formed.

Harry dodged it.

And then, because they hadn’t practised doing this part inside of
hallways, she crashed into a wall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Somnium!” shrieked Draco, and then after only a few seconds to
recharge, “SOMNIUM, CURSE YOU!”

He knew he was hitting Theodore, the other boy wasn’t even trying to
dodge, but the scion of Nott only grinned as evilly as his father and
levelled his wand—

Draco managed to leap aside just as Theodore said “Somnium!” but Draco
was getting winded, he couldn’t keep this up, Theodore wasn’t bothering
to dodge at all while Draco had to keep moving, this was crazy.

He had enough strength now to fire again, but—

Stupidity is doing the same thing and expecting a different result,
Harry had said, this was Harry’s work somehow, it couldn’t be a Muggle
artefact any more but Draco couldn’t figure out what it could be, and he
should be thinking of hypotheses and ways to test them but he was too
busy frantically dodging as Theodore laughed and shot another Sleep Hex
at him, Draco felt a little numbness in his side that time as he
twisted, that had been a very very near miss and finally Draco couldn’t
take it any more, he didn’t bother working out what theory he was
testing or why as he just—

“Luminos!” shouted Draco, and Theodore was haloed in red light, “Dulak!”
and it went out again (so Theodore was still being affected by magic),
“Expelliarmus!” and Theodore’s wand went flying (that had been a good
spell to cast anyway now that Draco realized it) but Theodore was
rushing toward Draco with his arms outstretched to grapple so Draco
yelled “Flipendo!” and the other boy’s feet were abruptly yanked up—

—and Theodore’s back hit the ground with a surprisingly loud and
metallic-sounding crash.

Draco’s vision was swimming now from casting four spells in such fast
succession, and Theodore was already scrambling to his feet, so there
wasn’t even time to think in words, but Draco still managed to say
“Somnium!” and this time he aimed for Theodore’s face instead of the
chest.

Theodore dodged (he dodged!) and the boy shouted “Code seven on Malfoy!”

“Prismatis!” cried Padma’s voice and there was suddenly a shimmering
rainbow wall in front of Draco, just as four Chaotic voices cried
“Somnium!”

And there was a pause, as everyone looked at the huge Prismatic Sphere
protecting the remnants of Dragon Army.

Casting that fifth spell had sent Draco to his hands and knees, but he
looked up and managed to say, as clearly as he could, “If the Sleep
Hex—doesn’t work—aim for the face—I think the Lieutenants are wearing
metal shirts.”

“You’ve already lost too many soldiers,” Finnigan said loudly from
across the barrier, “we’ll beat you anyway,” and then the Gryffindor boy
laughed evilly. He did the evil laughter almost as well as Harry Potter
by now, and the other Chaotic Legionnaires started laughing with him
soon afterwards.

Draco could see from the corner of his eye where Gregory and Vincent lay
unconscious. Padma was still sustaining the Prismatic Sphere, the
largest one he’d ever seen her cast; but she was breathing hard, still
visibly sweaty from when they’d all jogged to get into position, the
Ravenclaw girl was a strong witch but not an athletic one.

He really hoped General Granger got here soon and hit Chaos from behind.
General Potter and Neville of Chaos were missing, and Draco could guess
where they’d gone, but two soldiers couldn’t delay the whole Sunshine
Regiment for too long all by themselves, could they?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She knew it wasn’t fair, that the other girl had given all she could,
but Hermione still wished that Daphne had lasted longer.

“Lagann!” said Neville’s voice from behind her as she flew, and there
was the sound of a Prismatic Wall shattering, Hannah’s voice desperately
cried “Somnium!” and then a few moments later Neville’s voice calmly
said “Somnium” and there was the thud of another of her soldiers falling
over.

And the force keeping her in the air diminished again, Hermione could
feel the grab of the Hover Charms straining at her, but now it just
wasn’t enough.

Her flight stopped and she began falling in slow motion toward the
ground, and she should’ve signalled her soldiers to just drop her, but
she was too angry and confused and not thinking fast enough and still
trying to muster the strength for one last Stunning Hex, and so there
was nowhere to go when Harry pointed his wand at her and said “Somnium”
and that was the last word that Hermione Granger heard of her battle.

68. Self Actualization, Part III

HERMIONE wasn’t feeling very nice right now, or Good either, there was a
hot ball of anger burning inside her and she wondered if this was
something like Harry’s darkness (though it probably wasn’t even close)
and she shouldn’t have felt that way over some silly little game but—

Her whole army. Two soldiers had beaten her whole army. That was what
she’d been told after she woke up.

It was a little too much.

“Well,” Professor Quirrell said. From up close the Defence Professor
didn’t look quite as healthy as he had the last time she’d been in his
office; his skin looked paler, and he moved a little slower. His
expression was as stern as ever, and his gaze as penetrating; his
fingers tapped sharply on his desk, rap-rap. “I would guess that of the
three of you, only Mr Malfoy has guessed why I’ve asked you here.”

“Something to do with Noble and Most Ancient Houses?” said Harry from
beside her, sounding puzzled. “I didn’t violate some kind of crazy law
by firing on Daphne, did I?”

“Not quite,” the man said with heavy irony. “Since Miss Greengrass did
not invoke the correct duelling forms, she is not entitled to demand
that you be stripped of your House name. Although of course I would not
have permitted a formal duel. Wars do not respect such rules.” The
Defence Professor leaned forward and rested his chin on steepled hands,
as though sitting upright had already tired him. His eyes gazed at them,
sharp and dangerous. “General Malfoy. Why did I call you here?”

“General Potter against the two of us isn’t a fair fight any more,”
Draco Malfoy said in a quiet voice.

“What?” blurted Hermione. “We almost had them, if Daphne hadn’t
fainted—”

“Miss Greengrass did not faint from magical exhaustion,” Professor
Quirrell said dryly. “Mr Potter shot her in the back with a Sleep Hex
while your soldiers were distracted by the sight of their general flying
into a wall. But congratulations nonetheless, Miss Granger, on almost
defeating two Chaotic Legionnaires with a mere twenty-four Sunshine
Soldiers.”

The blood flaming in her cheeks grew a little hotter. “That—that was
just—if I’d only figured out he was wearing armour—”

Professor Quirrell gazed at her from over touched fingers. “Of course
there are ways you could have won, Miss Granger. There always are, in
every lost battle. The world around us redounds with opportunities,
explodes with opportunities, which nearly all folk ignore because it
would require them to violate a habit of thought; in every battle a
thousand Hufflepuff bones waiting to be sharpened into spears. If you
had thought to try a massed Finite Incantatem on general principles, you
would have dispelled Mr Potter’s suit of chain mail and everything else
he was wearing except his underwear, which leads me to suspect that
Mr Potter did not quite realize his own vulnerability. Or you could have
had your soldiers swarm Mr Potter and Mr Longbottom and physically wrest
the wands from their hands. Mr Malfoy’s own response was not what I
would term well-reasoned, but at least he did not wholly ignore his
thousand alternatives.” A sardonic smile. “But you, Miss Granger, had
the misfortune to remember how to cast the Stunning Hex, and so you did
not search your excellent memory for a dozen easier spells that might
have proved efficacious. And you pinned all your army’s hopes on your
own person, so they lost spirit when you fell. Afterwards they continued
to cast their futile Sleep Hexes, governed by the habits of fighting
that had been trained into them, unable to break the pattern as
Mr Malfoy did. I cannot quite comprehend what goes through people’s
minds when they repeat the same failed strategy over and over, but
apparently it is an astonishingly rare realization that you can try
something else. And so the Sunshine Regiment was wiped out by two
soldiers.” The Defence Professor grinned mirthlessly. “One perceives
certain similarities to how fifty Death Eaters dominated all of magical
Britain, and how our much-loved Ministry continues in its rule.”

The Defence Professor sighed. “Nonetheless, Miss Granger, the fact
remains that this is not the first such defeat for you. In the previous
battle, you and Mr Malfoy united your forces, and yet you were fought to
a standstill, so that you and Mr Malfoy had to pursue Mr Potter onto the
roof. The Chaos Legion has now demonstrated, twice in succession,
military strength equal to both other armies combined. This leaves me no
choice. General Potter, you will select eight soldiers from your army,
including at least one Chaotic Lieutenant, to be divided among Dragon
Army and the Sunshine Regiment—”

“What?” Hermione burst out again, she glanced over at the other generals
and saw that Harry looked as shocked as her, while Draco Malfoy only
looked resigned.

“General Potter is stronger than both of you together,” Professor
Quirrell said with calm precision. “Your contest is over, he has won,
and it is time to rebalance the three armies to present him with a
renewed challenge.”

“Professor Quirrell!” said Harry. “I didn’t—”

“This is my decision as the Professor of Battle Magic at the Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and it is not subject to negotiation.”
The words were still precise, but the look in Professor Quirrell’s eyes
chilled Hermione’s blood, even though he was glaring at Harry and not at
her. “And I find it suspicious, Mr Potter, that the moment you wished to
isolate Miss Granger and Mr Malfoy and force them to chase you onto the
roof, you were able to annihilate just exactly as much of their united
force as you pleased. Indeed, that is the level of performance I
expected of you since the start of this year, and I am annoyed to
discover that you have been holding back in my classes this entire time!
I have seen what you can truly do, Mr Potter. You are far beyond the
point where Mr Malfoy or Miss Granger can fight you on an equal level,
and you will not be permitted to pretend otherwise. This, Mr Potter, I
tell you in my capacity as your professor: for you to learn to your full
potential, you must exercise your full abilities and not hold back for
any reason—particularly not childish frets over what your friends might
think!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She left the Defence Professor’s office with a larger army, and less
dignity, and feeling a lot like a sad little bug that had just been
squished, and trying very very hard not to cry.

“I wasn’t holding back!” Harry said as soon as they turned the first
corner away from Professor Quirrell’s office, the moment the wooden door
faded out of sight behind the stone walls. “I wasn’t pretending, I never
let either of you win!”

She didn’t answer, couldn’t answer, it would all break loose if she
tried to say a word.

“Really?” said Draco Malfoy. The Dragon General still had that air of
resignation. “Because Quirrell’s right, you know, it’s suspicious that
you could beat nearly everyone in both our armies as soon as you wanted
to make us chase you onto the roof. And didn’t you say something then,
Potter, about us needing to beat you when you were fighting for real?”

The burning sensation was creeping up her throat, and when it reached
her eyes she would burst into tears, and from then on she would be just
a crying little girl to both of them.

“That—” Harry’s voice said urgently, she wasn’t looking at him but his
voice sounded like he had his head turned toward her. “That was—I tried
a lot harder that time, there was an important reason, I had to, so I
used a whole bunch of tricks I’d been saving up—and—”

She’d always been trying her hardest, every time.

“—and I, I let out a side of myself I wouldn’t usually use for something
like Defence class—”

So if she ever got close to winning against Harry when it really
mattered, he could just go into his dark side and crush her, was that
it?

…of course it was. She couldn’t even look Harry in the eyes when he was
being scary, how had she ever thought she could beat him for real?

The corridor forked, and Harry Potter and Draco Malfoy went left toward
a staircase that climbed to the second floor, and she went right
instead, she didn’t even know where that passage went but right now
she’d rather be lost in the castle.

“Excuse me, Draco,” said Harry’s voice, and then there was a pattering
of footsteps behind her.

“Leave me alone,” she said, it came out sounding stern but then she had
to shut her mouth and press her lips together tightly and hold her
breath to stop it all from coming out.

That boy just kept on coming, and ran around her and put himself in
front of her, because he was stupid that was why, and Harry said, his
voice now a high and desperate whisper, “I didn’t run away when you were
beating me in all my classes except broomstick riding!”

He didn’t understand, and he would never understand, Harry Potter would
never understand, because no matter what contest he lost he would still
be the Boy-Who-Lived, if you were Harry Potter and Hermione Granger was
beating you then it meant everyone was expecting you to rise to the
challenge, if you were Hermione Granger and Harry Potter was beating you
that meant you were just no-one.

“It’s not fair,” she said, her voice was shaking but she wasn’t crying
yet, not yet, “I shouldn’t have to fight your dark side, I’m just—I’m
only—” I’m only twelve, that was what she thought then.

“I only used my dark side once and that was—when I had to!”

“So today you beat my whole army being just Harry?” She still wasn’t
crying yet, and she wondered what her face looked like right now, if she
looked like an angry Hermione or a sad one.

“I—” Harry said. His voice got a little lower, “I wasn’t… really
expecting to win, that time, I know I said I was invincible but that was
just to try to scare you, I really just thought we’d slow you down for a
bit—”

She started walking again, walked right past him, and as she passed
Harry’s face tightened up like he was going to cry.

“Is Professor Quirrell right?” came a high desperate whisper from behind
her. “If I have you for a friend, will I always be afraid to do better
because I know it will hurt your feelings? That’s not fair, Hermione!”

She took a breath and held it and ran, her feet pattering across the
stone as fast as they could, running as fast as she dared with her
vision all blurry, ran so that no-one would hear her, and this time
Harry didn’t follow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva was going over the Transfiguration parchment due Monday, and had
just marked down to negative two hundred points a fifth-year parchment
with an error that could have potentially killed someone. During her
first year as a professor she’d been indignant at the folly of older
students, now she was just resigned. Some people not only never learned,
they never noticed that they were hopeless, they stayed bright and eager
and kept on trying. Sometimes they believed you when you told them,
before they left Hogwarts, that they must never try anything unusual,
give up free Transfiguration and use the art only through established
Charms; and sometimes… they didn’t.

She was in the middle of trying to unravel a particularly convoluted
answer when a knock at the door disrupted her thoughts; and it wasn’t
her office hours, but it had only taken a very short time as Head of
Gryffindor House for her to learn to suspend judgement. You could always
deduct House points afterwards.

“Come in,” she said in a crisp voice.

The young girl who entered her office had clearly been crying, and then
afterwards had washed her face in hopes it wouldn’t show—

“Miss Granger!” said Professor McGonagall. It had taken her a moment to
recognize that face with its eyes reddened and cheeks puffed. “What
happened?”

“Professor,” said the young girl in a wavering voice, “you said that if
I was ever worried or uncomfortable about anything, I should come to you
at once—”

“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall, “now what happened?”

The girl started to explain—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione stood still and the stairs turned around her, a revolving helix
that shouldn’t have taken her anywhere at all, and instead bore her
continuously upward. Hermione thought it seemed like the Enchantment of
the Endless Stair, which had been invented in 1733 by the wizard Arram
Sabeti who’d lived on top of Mount Everest in the days when no Muggles
could climb it. Only that couldn’t be right because Hogwarts was much
older—maybe the enchantment had been reinvented?

She should’ve been frightened, should’ve been nervous about her second
meeting with the Headmaster.

She was, in fact, frightened and nervous about her second meeting with
the Headmaster.

Only Hermione Granger had been thinking; she’d been thinking a lot,
after she hadn’t been able to run any further and had slid down against
the wall with her lungs on fire, thinking while she curled up in a ball
with her back against the chilly stone wall and her legs drawn up and
crying.

Even if she lost to Harry Potter she was never, ever going to lose to
Draco Malfoy, that was just totally absolutely unacceptable, and
Professor Quirrell had praised General Malfoy for not ignoring his
thousand alternatives; and so after Hermione had cried herself out she’d
thought of fourteen other spells she should’ve tried against Harry and
Neville, and then she’d started wondering if she might be making the
same sort of mistake about other things; and that was how she’d ended up
knocking on Professor McGonagall’s door. Not asking for help, right now
Hermione didn’t have any plans she could ask for help with, just telling
Professor McGonagall everything, because when she’d thought of it that
had seemed like one of the thousand alternatives that Professor Quirrell
had been talking about.

And she’d told Professor McGonagall about how Harry Potter had changed
since the day the phœnix had been on his shoulder, and about how people
more and more seemed to see her as just something of Harry’s, and how it
seemed like Harry was pulling farther and farther away from everyone
else in their school year and went around with a sad air sometimes like
he was losing something, and she didn’t know what to do any more.

And Professor McGonagall had told her that they needed to talk to the
Headmaster.

And Hermione had felt worried, but then the thought had come to her that
Harry Potter wouldn’t have been scared of the Headmaster. Harry Potter
would have just barged ahead doing whatever he was trying to do. Maybe
(the thought had come to her) it was worth trying to be like that, not
being scared, just doing whatever, and seeing what happened to her, it
couldn’t really be worse.

The Endless Stair stopped turning.

The great oaken door in front of them with the brass griffin knocker
opened without being touched.

Behind a black oaken desk with dozens of drawers facing in every
direction, looking like it had drawers set inside other drawers, was the
silver-bearded Headmaster of Hogwarts upon his throne, Albus Percival
Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, into whose gently twinkling eyes Hermione
looked for around three seconds before she was distracted by all the
other things in the room.

Some time later—she wasn’t sure how long but it was while she was trying
to count the number of things in the room for the third time and still
not getting the same answer, even though her memory insisted that
nothing had been added or removed—the Headmaster cleared his throat and
said, “Miss Granger?”

Hermione’s head snapped around, and she felt a little heat in her
cheeks; but Dumbledore didn’t appear annoyed with her at all, only
serene, and with an inquiring look in those mild, half-glassed eyes.

“Hermione,” said Professor McGonagall, the older witch’s voice was
gentle and her hand rested reassuringly on Hermione’s shoulder, “please
tell the Headmaster what you said to me about Harry.”

Hermione began speaking, despite her newfound resolution her voice still
stumbled a little with nervousness, as she described how Harry had
changed in the last few weeks since Fawkes had been on his shoulder.

When she was done there was a pause, and then the Headmaster sighed. “I
am sorry, Hermione Granger,” said Dumbledore. Those blue eyes had grown
sadder as she spoke. “That is… unfortunate, but I cannot say it is
unexpected. That is a hero’s burden, which you see.”

“A hero?” said Hermione. She looked up nervously at Professor McGonagall
and saw that the Transfiguration Professor’s face had grown tight,
though her hand still squeezed Hermione’s shoulder reassuringly.

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “I was a hero myself once, before I was a
mysterious old wizard, in the days when I opposed Grindelwald. You have
read history books, Miss Granger?”

Hermione nodded.

“Well,” said Dumbledore, “that is what heroes have to do, Miss Granger,
they have their tasks and they must grow strong to accomplish them, and
that is what you see happening to Harry. If there is anything that can
be done to gentle his pathway, then you will be the one to do it, and
not I. For I am not Harry’s friend, alas, but only his mysterious old
wizard.”

“I—” said Hermione. “I’m not sure—I still want to be—” Her voice
stopped, it seemed too awful to say aloud.

Dumbledore closed his eyes, and when he opened them, he looked a little
older than before. “No-one can stop you, Miss Granger, if you choose to
stop being Harry’s friend. As for what it would do to him, you may know
that better than I.”

“That—doesn’t seem fair,” Hermione said, her voice trembling. “That I’ve
got to be Harry’s friend because he’s got no-one else? That doesn’t seem
fair.”

“Being a friend is not something you can be forced to, Miss Granger.”
The blue eyes seemed to look right through her. “The feelings are there,
or they are not. If they are there, you can accept them or deny them.
You are Harry’s friend—and choosing to deny it would wound him terribly,
perhaps beyond healing. But Miss Granger, what would drive you to such
extremes?”

She couldn’t find words. She’d never been able to find words. “If you
get too near Harry—you get swallowed up, and no-one sees you any more,
you’re just something of his, everyone thinks the whole world revolves
around him and…” She didn’t have the words.

The old wizard nodded slowly. “It is indeed an unjust world we live in,
Miss Granger. All the world now knows that it is I who defeated
Grindelwald, and fewer remember Elizabeth Beckett who died opening the
way so I could pass through. And yet she is remembered. Harry Potter is
the hero of this play, Miss Granger; the world does revolve around him.
He is destined for great things; and I ween that in time the name of
Albus Dumbledore will be remembered as Harry Potter’s mysterious old
wizard, more than for anything else I have done. And perhaps the name of
Hermione Granger will be remembered as his companion, if you prove
worthy of it in your day. For this I tell you true: never will you find
more glory on your own, than in Harry Potter’s company.”

Hermione shook her head rapidly. “But that’s not—” She’d known she
wouldn’t be able to explain. “It’s not about glory, it’s about
being—something that belongs to someone else!”

“So you think you would rather be the hero?” The old wizard sighed.
“Miss Granger, I have been a hero, and a leader; and I would have been a
thousand times happier if I could have belonged to someone like Harry
Potter. Someone made of sterner stuff than I, to make the hard
decisions, and yet worthy to lead me. I thought, once, that I knew such
a man, but I was mistaken… Miss Granger, you have no idea at all how
fortunate are those like you, compared to heroes.”

The hot burning feeling was creeping up her throat again, along with
helplessness, she didn’t understand why Professor McGonagall had brought
her here if the Headmaster wasn’t going to help, and from a glance at
Professor McGonagall’s face, it looked like Professor McGonagall also
wasn’t sure now that it had been a good idea.

“I don’t want to be a hero,” said Hermione Granger, “I don’t want to be
a hero’s companion, I just want to be me.”

(The thought came to her a few seconds later that maybe she did in fact
want to be a hero, but she decided not to change what she’d said.)

“Ah,” said the old wizard. “That is a tall order, Miss Granger.”
Dumbledore rose from his throne, stepped out behind his desk, and
pointed to a symbol on the wall, so ubiquitous that Hermione’s eyes had
glossed right over it; a faded shield on which was inscribed the
heraldry of Hogwarts, the lion and snake, and badger and raven, and in
Latin engraved words whose point she’d never understood. Then, as she
realized where that shield was, and how old it looked, it suddenly
occurred to Hermione that this might be the original—

“A Hufflepuff would say,” said Dumbledore, tapping his finger on the
faded badger and making Hermione wince for the sacrilege (if it was the
original), “that people fail to become who they are meant to be, because
they are too lazy to put in all the work involved. A Ravenclaw,” tapping
the raven, “would repeat those words that the wise know to be far older
than Socrates, know thyself, and say that people fail to become who they
are meant to be, through ignorance and lack of thought. And Salazar
Slytherin,” Dumbledore frowned as his finger tapped the faded snake,
“why, he said that we become who we are meant to be by following our
desires wherever they lead. Perhaps he would say that people fail to
become themselves because they refuse to do what is necessary to achieve
their ambitions. But then one notes that nearly all of the Dark Wizards
to come out of Hogwarts have been Slytherins. Did they become what they
were meant to be? I think not.” Dumbledore’s finger tapped the lion, and
then he turned toward her. “Tell me, Miss Granger, what would a
Gryffindor say? I do not need to ask whether the Sorting Hat offered you
that House.”

It didn’t seem like a hard question. “A Gryffindor would say that people
don’t become who they should be, because they’re afraid.”

“Most people are afraid, Miss Granger,” said the old wizard. “They live
their whole lives circumscribed by crippling fear that cuts off
everything they might accomplish, everything they might become. Fear of
saying or doing the wrong thing, fear of losing their mere possessions,
fear of death, and above all the fear of what other people will think of
them. Such fear is a most terrible thing, Miss Granger, and it is
terribly important to know that. But it is not what Godric Gryffindor
would have said. People become who they are meant to be, Miss Granger,
by doing what is right.” The old wizard’s voice was gentle. “So tell me,
Miss Granger, what seems to you like the right choice? For that is who
you truly are, and wherever that path leads, that is who you are meant
to become.”

There was a long space filled with the sounds of things that could not
be counted.

She thought about it, because she was a Ravenclaw.

“I don’t think it’s right,” Hermione said slowly, “for someone to have
to live inside someone else’s shadow like that…”

“Many things in the world are not right,” said the old wizard, “the
question is what is right for you to do about them. Hermione Granger, I
shall be less subtle than is usual for a mysterious old wizard, and tell
you outright that you cannot imagine how badly things could go if the
events surrounding Harry Potter turn to ill. His quest is a matter you
would not even dream of walking away from, if you knew.”

“What quest?” said Hermione. Her voice was trembling, because it was
very clear what answer the Headmaster was looking for and she didn’t
want to give it. “What happened to Harry back then, why was Fawkes on
his shoulder?”

“He grew up,” said the old wizard. His eyes blinked several times,
beneath the half-moon glasses, and his face suddenly looked very lined.
“You see, Miss Granger, people do not grow up because of time, people
grow up when they are placed in grown-up situations. That is what
happened to Harry Potter that Saturday. He was told—you are not to share
this information with anyone, you understand—he was told that he would
have to fight someone. I cannot tell you who. I cannot tell you why. But
that is what happened to him, and why he needs his friends.”

There was a pause.

“Bellatrix Black?” Hermione said. She couldn’t have been more shocked if
someone had plugged an electrical cord into her ear. “You’re going to
make Harry fight Bellatrix Black?”

“No,” said the old wizard. “Not her. I cannot tell you who, or why.”

She thought about it some more.

“Is there any way I can keep up with Harry?” said Hermione. “I mean, I’m
not saying it’s what I’ll do, but—if he needs friends then can we be
equal friends? Can I be a hero too?”

“Ah,” said the old wizard, and smiled. “Only you can decide that,
Miss Granger.”

“But you’re not going to help me like you’re helping Harry.”

The old wizard shook his head. “I have helped him little enough,
Miss Granger. And if you are asking me for a quest—” The old wizard
smiled again, rather wryly. “Miss Granger, you are in your first year of
Hogwarts. Do not be too eager to grow up; there will be time enough for
that later.”

“I’m twelve. Harry’s eleven.”

“Harry Potter is special,” said the old wizard. “As you know,
Miss Granger.” The blue eyes were suddenly piercing beneath the
half-moon glasses, and she was reminded of the day of the Dementor when
Dumbledore’s voice had said, inside her mind, that he knew about Harry’s
dark side.

Hermione put up her hand and touched Professor McGonagall’s hand, which
had stayed strong on her shoulder this whole time, and Hermione said,
she was surprised that her voice didn’t break, “I’d like to go, now,
please.”

“Of course,” said Professor McGonagall, and Hermione felt the hand on
her shoulder gently turning her around to face the oaken door.

“Have you chosen your path yet, Hermione Granger?” said Albus
Dumbledore’s voice from behind her, even as the door slowly creaked open
to reveal the Enchantment of the Endless Stair.

She nodded.

“And?”

“I’ll,” she said, her voice stuck, “I’ll, I’ll—”

She swallowed.

“I’ll do—what’s right—”

She didn’t say anything else, she couldn’t, and then the Endless Stair
began revolving around her once again.

Neither she nor Professor McGonagall spoke on the way down.

When the Flowing Stone gargoyles stepped out of their way, and the two
of them stepped out into the corridors of Hogwarts, Professor McGonagall
finally spoke, and she said in a whisper, “I’m so terribly sorry,
Miss Granger. I did not think the Headmaster would say such things to
you. I think he truly has forgotten what it is like to be a child.”

Hermione glanced back up to her and saw that Professor McGonagall looked
like she was about to burst into tears… only not really, but there was a
tightness in her face that was like that.

“If I want to be a hero too,” said Hermione, “if I’ve decided to be a
hero too, is there anything you can do to help?”

Professor McGonagall rapidly shook her head, and said, “Miss Granger,
I’m not sure the Headmaster is wrong about that. You are twelve.”

“Okay,” said Hermione.

They walked forward a bit.

“Excuse me,” said Hermione, “is it okay if I walk back to the Ravenclaw
tower by myself? I’m sorry, it’s not your fault or anything, I just want
to be by myself right now.”

“Of course, Miss Granger,” said Professor McGonagall, her voice sounding
a little hoarse, and Hermione heard her footsteps stop, and then turn
around behind her.

Hermione Granger walked away.

She climbed a flight of stairs, and then another, wondering if there was
anyone else in Hogwarts who would give her a chance to be a hero.
Professor Flitwick would say the same thing as Professor McGonagall, and
even if he didn’t, he probably couldn’t help, Hermione didn’t know who
could help. Well, Professor Quirrell would come up with something clever
if she used up enough Quirrell points, but she had a feeling that asking
him would be a bad idea—that the Defence Professor couldn’t help anyone
become the sort of hero that was worth becoming, and that he wouldn’t
even understand the difference.

She had almost reached the Ravenclaw tower when she saw the flash of
gold.

69. Self Actualization, Part IV

IT was out of the corner of her eye that Hermione Granger saw it, a
reflection on the polished metal of a statue at the junction of two
corridors, a flash of gold, a flash of red, something like an image of
fire; just for a moment she saw it, and then it was gone.

She paused, puzzled, and she almost walked away, but there had been
something familiar about that brief glow—

Hermione walked forward to where the statue had stood, looked at the
corridor from which she thought the fiery reflection might have come.

Faintly, as though from a faraway place, she heard the cry, the call.

Hermione started to run.

She ran for a while; whenever she got to a junction she would pause,
catch as much breath as she could, and then she would see a flash of
fire reflected from one direction or another, or hear that distant call.
If it hadn’t been for her army training she would’ve fallen over in
exhaustion, running like that.

She never saw the phœnix.

And then she came to a four-way branch and there was nothing, no sign,
she waited for long seconds and she heard no cry and saw no fire, and
she was only just starting to wonder with a sick sad feeling if she’d
imagined the whole thing, when she heard a person cry out.

When her rapidly racing feet turned the corner her mind took in the
whole scene at a glance, three huge boys in green-trimmed robes already
turning to look at her, and one shorter and smaller boy in yellow, who
was dangling in the air from one foot held up high by an invisible hand.

The Sunshine General didn’t even think about it, people who stopped to
think didn’t spring very good ambushes.

Her wand was in her hand, her fingers did the twist and her lips said
“Somnium!” and the largest bully fell over, the Hufflepuff boy dropped
out of the air with a thump and the other two bullies were trying to aim
their wands at her and she said “Somnium!” again and another huge boy
keeled over—the one who’d been aiming his wand faster, that was who
she’d fired at.

Unfortunately casting two Sleep Hexes in a row like that was hard even
for her, and she couldn’t get off a third before—

The last bully shouted “Protego!” and was surrounded by a shimmering
blue glow.

Twenty-four hours ago, Hermione would have panicked at that, a real
Shielding Charm would let the bully-boy cast spells on her even while he
was protected.

Now she—

“Stupefy!” shouted the bully-boy.

The crimson bolt blasted toward her with a terrible brilliance, blazing
far brighter than any hex that had sprung from Harry’s wand.

Hermione swayed slightly to the left, and the bolt missed, because the
bully’s aim hadn’t been nearly as good as Harry’s; and the thought came
to her that maybe bullies and Professor Quirrell’s armies didn’t mix.

“Stupefy!” shouted the bully-boy again. “Expelliarmus! Stupefy!”

Anyway, now she’d just spent a whole hour thinking of all the other
spells she could’ve cast on Harry and Neville—

“Jellify!” yelled the bully-boy, a wide-beam jinx with no visible bolt
to dodge, and her knees suddenly felt almost too weak to support her.
And then, with an angry roar producing an even brighter blaze of
crimson, “Stupefy!”

She dodged that one by deliberately falling, and by then she’d recovered
enough for her next spell, which was—

“Glisseo,” said Hermione, directing her remark to the floor.

“Oof,” said the bully-boy as his feet went out from under him and he
actually dropped his wand.

The Protego winked out.

“Somnium,” said Hermione.

She was still breathing in gasps as she crawled over to where the
Hufflepuff boy was sitting up, and groaning and rubbing his skull where
he’d been dropped head-first into the floor; it was a good thing he
hadn’t been a Muggle, Hermione realized, or he might have snapped his
neck. She hadn’t actually thought of that.

“Uh,” said the boy, his hair was of a colour that would’ve been called
‘brunette’ if he was a girl, his eyes an undistinguished brown that
somehow seemed just right for Hufflepuff, there weren’t any tears on his
face but he looked sort of pale. She pegged him at about fourth year, or
third.

Then the brown eyes widened as he focused on her. “General Sunshine?”

“Yeah,” she said. “That’s (gasp) me.” If the Hufflepuff boy said
anything about her being Harry Potter’s love interest, she decided, he
was going to die.

“Wow,” said the Hufflepuff boy. “That was—you just—I mean I saw you on
the screens before Christmas but—wow! I can’t believe you just did
that!”

There was a pause.

I can’t believe I just did that, thought Hermione Granger, who was
feeling a little faint all of a sudden, it must have been all that
running. “Excuse (gasp) me,” she said, “can you (gasp) Unjellify my
legs?”

The boy nodded, pushed himself to his feet, and reached inside his robes
for his wand; but Hermione had to correct his gesture before the
counter-Jinx worked right.

“I’m Michael Hopkins,” said the boy once Hermione had rolled back to her
own feet. He stuck out his hand. “Or just Mike inside Hufflepuff, there
aren’t any other Mikes in all of Hufflepuff this year, would you believe
it?”

They shook hands, and Mike said, “Anyway, thank you.”

Hermione wasn’t prepared for the rush of euphoria that hit her then,
saving someone like that literally felt better than anything she’d ever
felt in her whole life.

She turned to look at the bullies.

They were very big and they looked, she thought, around fifteen years
old, and she was suddenly realizing just how large a difference had
sprung up between Hogwarts students who’d signed up for all of Professor
Quirrell’s extracurricular activities, and students who’d had years of
being taught by the worst Professors ever to go Professing. Being able
to hit things that you aimed at, for example; or being able to think
well enough in the middle of a fight to realize that you ought to
Innervate your fallen allies. And other things Professor Quirrell had
said, like that in the real world almost any fight would be settled by a
surprise attack, suddenly made a lot more sense to her.

Still trying to catch her breath, she looked back at Mike.

“Would you (gasp) believe,” said Hermione Granger, “that five minutes
ago I was (gasp) having trouble figuring out how to become a (gasp)
hero?”

Had she really thought she needed permission from someone, or that
heroes sat around waiting for someone else to give them quests? It was
very simple actually, you just went where the evil was, that was all it
ever took to be a hero. She should’ve remembered, she shouldn’t have
needed a phœnix to tell her, that bad things sometimes happened right
here in Hogwarts.

Then Hermione glanced nervously back at where the three older boys were
lying unconscious as the realization hit that they’d seen her, they
might know who she was, they might sneak up on her and take her by
surprise and—and they could really hurt her—

Hermione stopped.

She remembered that Harry Potter had put himself in the middle of five
Slytherin bullies on the first day of class when he hadn’t even known
how to use his wand.

She remembered the Headmaster saying that you grew up by being put in
grown-up situations, and that most people lived their lives inside a
constraining circle of fear.

And she remembered Professor McGonagall’s voice saying, ‘You are
twelve.’

Hermione took a deep breath, once, twice, and three times.

She asked Mike if he needed to go to Madam Pomfrey’s office, which he
didn’t; and got him to tell her the names of the Slytherin boys, just in
case.

And then Hermione Granger strolled away from the heap of unconscious
bullies, making sure to put a smile on her face as she walked.

She knew that she was probably going to get hurt sooner or later. But if
you were too scared of getting hurt to do what was right, then you
couldn’t be a hero, it was as simple as that; and if you’d put the
Sorting Hat on her head at that moment it wouldn’t have waited even one
second before calling out ‘GRYFFINDOR!’

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She was still thinking about it when she came down to dinner; the
euphoria of saving someone still hadn’t worn off, and she was beginning
to worry that it had broken something in her brain.

As she approached the Ravenclaw table a sudden epidemic of whispers
broke out, and Hermione wondered if the Hufflepuff boy had said anything
yet before she realized that the whispers probably weren’t about that.

She sat down across from Harry Potter who looked extremely nervous,
probably because she was still smiling.

“Uh—” said Harry, as she served herself freshly toasted bread, butter,
cinnamon, no fruits or vegetables whatsoever, and three chocolate
brownies. “Uh—”

She let him go on like that until she’d finished pouring herself a glass
of grapefruit juice, and then she said, “I’ve got a question for you,
Mr Potter. How do you think people fail to become themselves?”

“What?” said Harry.

She looked at him. “Pretend there isn’t all this stuff going on,” she
said, “and just say whatever you’d have said yesterday.”

“Um…” Harry said, looking very confused and worried. “I think we already
are ourselves… it’s not like I’m an imperfect copy of someone else. But
I guess if I try to run with the sense of the question, then I’d say
that people don’t become themselves because we absorb all this crazy
stuff from the environment and then regurgitate it. I mean, how many
people playing Quidditch would be playing a game like that if they’d
invented the game themselves? Or back in Muggle Britain, how many people
who think of themselves as Labour or Conservative or Liberal Democrat
would invent that exact bundle of political beliefs if they had to come
up with everything themselves?”

Hermione considered this. She’d been wondering if Harry would say
something Slytherin or maybe even Gryffindor, but this didn’t seem to
fit into the Headmaster’s list; and it occurred to Hermione that there
might be a lot more viewpoints on the subject than just four.

“Okay,” said Hermione, “different question. What makes someone a hero?”

“A hero?” said Harry.

“Yeah,” said Hermione.

“Ah…” Harry said. His fork and knife nervously sawed at a piece of
steak, cutting it into tinier and tinier pieces. “I think a lot of
people can do things when the world channels them into it… like people
are expecting you to do it, or it only uses skills you already know, or
there’s an authority watching to catch your mistakes and make sure you
do your part. But problems like that are probably already being solved,
you know, and then there’s no need for heroes. So I think the people we
call ‘heroes’ are rare because they’ve got to make everything up as they
go along, and most people aren’t comfortable with that. Why do you ask?”
Harry’s fork stabbed three pieces of thoroughly shredded steak and
lifted them up to his mouth.

“Oh, I just stunned three older Slytherin bullies and rescued a
Hufflepuff,” said Hermione. “I’m going to be a hero.”

When Harry had finished choking on his food (some of the other
Ravenclaws in hearing distance were still coughing) he said, “What?”

Hermione told the story, it began rippling out in further whispers even
as she spoke. (Though she left out the part about the phœnix, because
that seemed like a private thing between the two of them. Hermione had
felt surprised, thinking about it afterwards, that a phœnix would appear
for someone who wanted to be a hero; it seemed a bit selfish when she
thought about it that way; but maybe it didn’t matter to phœnixes so
long as they saw that you were willing to help people.)

When she was done talking, Harry stared at her across the table and
didn’t say a word.

“I’m sorry for how I acted earlier,” Hermione said. She sipped from her
glass of grapefruit juice. “I should’ve remembered that if I’m still
beating the pants off you in Charms class then it’s okay for you to do
better in Defence.”

“Please don’t take this the wrong way,” said Harry. He looked too-adult
now, and grim. “But are you sure this is who you are, and not, to put it
bluntly, me?”

“I’m quite certain,” said Hermione. “Why, my name practically spells out
‘heroine’ except for the extra ‘m’, I never noticed that until today.”

“Being a hero isn’t all fun and games,” said Harry. “Not real heroing,
the sort grown-ups have to do, it isn’t like this, it isn’t going to be
this easy.”

“I know,” said Hermione.

“It’s hard and it’s painful and you’ve got to make decisions where there
isn’t any good answer—”

“Yes, Harry, I read those books too.”

“No,” said Harry, “you don’t understand, even if the books warn you
there’s no way you can understand until—”

“That doesn’t stop you,” said Hermione. “It doesn’t stop you even a
little. I bet you never even considered not being a hero because of
that. So why d’you think it’ll stop me?”

There was a pause.

A sudden huge smile lit Harry’s face, a smile that was as bright and as
boyish as the frown had been grim and adult, and everything was all
right again between them.

“This is going to go horribly mind-bogglingly wrong somehow,” said
Harry, still smiling hugely. “You know that, right?”

“Oh, I know,” said Hermione. She ate another bite of toast. “That
reminds me, Dumbledore refused to be my mysterious old wizard, is there
somewhere I can write to get another one?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath

“…and Professor Flitwick says her determination seems unshakeable,”
Minerva said tightly, staring at the silver-bearded old wizard who was
responsible for this. Albus Dumbledore was just sitting silently and
listening to her with a distant sad look in his eyes. “Miss Granger
didn’t even blink when Professor Flitwick threatened to have her
transferred to Gryffindor, just said that if she left she would take all
the books with her. Hermione Granger has decided she’s going to be a
hero and she’s not taking no for an answer. I doubt you could have
pushed her into this any harder if you had tried to—”

It took all of five full seconds for Minerva’s brain to process the
realization.

“ALBUS!” she shrieked.

“My dear,” said the old wizard, “after you have dealt with your
thirtieth hero or so, you will realize that they react quite predictably
to certain things; such as being told that they are too young, or that
they are not destined to be heroes, or that being a hero is unpleasant;
and if you truly wish to be sure you should tell them all three.
Although,” with a brief sigh, “it does not do to be too blatant, or your
Deputy Headmistress might catch you.”

“Albus,” Minerva said, her voice even tighter, “if she is hurt, I swear
this time I’ll—”

“She would have come to that same place in due time,” Albus said, the
distant sad look still in his eyes. “If someone is meant to become a
hero then they will not listen to our warnings, Minerva, no matter how
hard we try. And given that, it is better for Harry if Miss Granger does
not fall too far behind him.” Albus produced, as though from nowhere, a
tin which flipped open to reveal small yellow lumps, she’d never been
able to figure out where he kept it and she’d never been able to detect
the magic involved. “Lemon drop?”

“She is a twelve-year-old girl, Albus!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Afteraftermath

Within the windows, barely visible in the evening gloom, fishes swam in
the black waters; illuminated by the bright shine of the Slytherin
common room as they came closer, fading into darkness as they swam away.

Daphne Greengrass was sitting in a comfortable black leather couch, her
head collapsed into her hands, glowing golden-yellowish as bright sparks
of white light winked in and out of existence around her.

She’d been ready to be teased about liking Neville Longbottom. She’d
been expecting to hear a lot of snide remarks about Hufflepuffs. She’d
thought of whole reams of snappy comebacks for it while she was on the
way back to the Slytherin dungeons.

She’d been looking forward to being teased about liking Neville. Being
teased about that sort of thing meant you’d grown up into a real girl.

As it turned out, nobody had worked out that her challenging Neville to
a Most Ancient Duel meant that she liked him. She’d thought it would be
obvious but no, nobody else had even thought of that apparently.

It was always the hex you didn’t see that hit you.

She should’ve just called herself Daphne of Sunshine, like Neville of
Chaos. Or Sunny Daphne like Sunny Ron. Or anything except Greengrass of
Sunshine.

Greengrass of Sunshine.

It had gone from there to Greengrass of Sunshine and Blue Skies.

Then someone had added Snow-Topped Mountains and Frolicking Woodland
Creatures.

Currently she was being referred to as the Sparkly Unicorn Princess of
the Noble and Most Ancient House of Sparklypoo.

And some cursed sixth-year girl had hit her with a Sparkling Jinx, she
hadn’t even known there was such a thing as a Sparkling Jinx, and Finite
Incantatem hadn’t worked, and she’d asked older girls who she’d thought
were her friends (she had apparently been wrong about this) and then
she’d threatened the caster with grievous political mayhem wreaked by
her father and nonetheless Daphne Greengrass was still sitting in the
Slytherin common room with her head in her hands, sparkling brightly and
wondering how she’d ended up as the only sane person in Hogwarts.

It was after dinner time and they were still at it and if they didn’t
stop by tomorrow morning she was going to transfer to Durmstrang and
become the next Dark Lady.

“Hey, everyone!” said the Carrow twins dramatically, waving an issue of
the Daily Prophet. “Did you hear the news? The Wizengamot just ruled
that ‘let’s see what you got’ constitutes a lawful challenge to be
fought until the challenger lies down and has a nap!”

“How dare you insult the honour of the Sparkly Unicorn Princess!”
shouted Tracey. “Let’s see what you got!” Then Tracey lay down flat on
her sofa and started snoring loudly.

Daphne’s sparkling head sank further into her glowing hands. “After my
family takes over I’m going to have you all put under anti-Apparition
jinxes and Flooed into the sea,” she said to no-one in particular.
“You’re all okay with that, right?”

Thunk-thunk, thunk-thunk-thunk, thunk.

Daphne looked up, surprised; that was a Sunshine code-signal—

“I hight someone knocking!” bellowed Mr Goyle. “Knocking of the door!”

“Let’s see what you’ve got, door!” shouted an older boy near the door,
and yanked the door open.

There was a moment of complete surprise.

“I’ve come to have a word with Miss Greengrass,” said the Sunshine
General, sounding like she was trying to sound confident. “Could someone
please—”

From the look on Hermione’s face she had just noticed Daphne sparkling.

And that was when Millicent Bulstrode raced up from the lower dorms and
shouted, “Hey, everyone, guess what, now Granger went and beaten up
Derrick and what’s left of his crew, and his father owled him and said
that if he didn’t—”

Millicent caught sight of Hermione standing in the doorway.

There was a very loud silence.

“Uh,” said Daphne. What? said her brain. “Uh, what’re you doing here,
General?”

“Well,” said Hermione Granger with a strange smile on her face, “I’ve
decided it’s not fair if mysterious old wizards give some people a
chance to be heroes and not others, and also I’ve read history books and
there aren’t nearly enough girl heroes in them. So I thought I’d just
drop by and see if you wanted to be a hero and why are you glowing like
that?”

There was another silence.

“This,” said Daphne, “was probably not the best time to ask me that
question—”

“I’ll take it!” shouted Tracey Davis, leaping off her sofa.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And thus was born the Society for the Promotion of Heroic Equality for
Witches.

70. Self Actualization, Part V

EVEN if you had been the Deputy Headmistress for three decades, and a
Transfiguration Professor before that, it was rare that you saw Albus
Dumbledore completely wrong-footed.

“…Susan Bones, Lavender Brown, and Daphne Greengrass,” Minerva finished.
“I should also note, Albus, that Miss Granger’s account of your
seemingly unsupportive attitude—I believe her phrase was ‘he said I
should be happy to be just a sidekick’—has generated a good deal of
interest among the older girls. Several of whom came to me to ask if
Miss Granger’s accusations were true, since Miss Granger had said that I
was there.”

The old wizard leaned back in his huge chair, still gazing at her, his
eyes looking rather abstracted beneath the half-moon glasses.

“It placed me in something of a dilemma, Albus,” said Professor
McGonagall. Her face stayed quite neutral, she made sure of that. “I now
know that you did not truly mean to discourage the girl. Quite the
opposite, in fact. But you and Severus have often told me that to keep a
secret I must give no sign that differs from the reaction of someone
truly ignorant. Thus I had no choice but to confirm that Miss Granger’s
account was accurate, and feign the appropriate degree of worry, with a
slight overtone of offense. After all, had I not known you were
deliberately manipulating Miss Granger, I might have been rather put
out.”

“I… see,” the old wizard said slowly. His hands toyed absently with his
silver beard, small quick gestures.

“Thankfully,” Professor McGonagall continued, “so far Professors
Sinistra and Vector are the only two faculty members to don
Miss Granger’s buttons.”

“Buttons?” repeated the old wizard.

Minerva drew forth a small silver disc bearing the initials SPHEW, laid
it on Albus’s desk, and gave it a brief tap with her finger.

And the voices of Hermione Granger, Padma Patil, Parvati Patil, Lavender
Brown, Susan Bones, Hannah Abbott, Daphne Greengrass, and Tracey Davis
cried out in unison, “We won’t settle for second best, it’s time to give
a witch a quest!”

“Miss Granger is selling them for two Sickles, and tells me that she has
so far sold fifty of them. I believe that Nymphadora Tonks, in
seventh-year Hufflepuff, is enchanting them for her. To conclude my
report,” Professor McGonagall said briskly, “our eight newly minted
heroines have asked permission to conduct a protest outside the entrance
to your office.”

“I hope,” Albus said, frowning, “you explained to them that—”

“I explained to them that Wednesday at 7 p.m. would be fine,” said
Minerva. She took back the button from the Headmaster’s desk, favoured
Albus with a honeyed smile, and turned to the door.

“Minerva?” said the old wizard from behind her. “Minerva!”

The oaken door shut solidly behind her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There wasn’t a lot of room between the brief stone walls that demarcated
the vestibule to the Headmaster’s office, so although a lot of people
had wanted to watch the protest, not many had been allowed to come. Just
Professor Sinistra and Professor Vector, who were wearing the buttons,
and the prefects Penelope Clearwater and Rose Brown and Jacqueline
Preece, who were wearing the buttons. Behind them, Professor McGonagall
and Professor Sprout and Professor Flitwick, who weren’t wearing the
buttons, scrutinizing the whole affair. Harry Potter and the Head Boy of
Hogwarts were there, and the boy prefects Percy Weasley and Oliver
Beatson, all wearing the buttons to show Solidarity. And of course the
eight founding members of SPHEW, forming a picket line next to the
gargoyles with their signs. Hermione’s own sign, attached to a solid
wooden handle which seemed to weigh heavier and heavier in her hands as
the seconds passed, said NOBODY’S SIDEKICK.

And Professor Quirrell, who was leaning with his back against the far
stone wall and watching with unreadable eyes. The Defence Professor had
acquired one of her buttons, though she’d never sold one to him; and he
wasn’t wearing it, but idly tossing it with one hand.

This whole idea had seemed like a much better idea four days ago, when
the fires of her indignation had been burning fresh and hot, and she’d
been facing the prospect of doing it all four days later instead of
right now.

But she had to carry on, because that was what heroes did, they carried
on, and also because it had seemed infinitely too awful to tell everyone
she was calling it off. Hermione wondered how much heroism had gone on
for reasons like that. Most books didn’t say “And then they refused to
give up, no matter how sensible it would have been, because that
would’ve been too embarrassing”; but a great deal of history made a lot
more sense that way.

At 7:15 p.m., Professor McGonagall had told her, Headmaster Dumbledore
would come down and talk to them for a couple of minutes. Professor
McGonagall had said not to be frightened—the Headmaster was a good
person deep down, and they’d properly obtained the school’s
authorization for the protest.

But Hermione was very very aware that even if she was doing it with
signed permission, she was still Defying Authority.

After she’d decided to be a hero, Hermione had done the obvious thing,
and gone to the Hogwarts library and taken out books on how to be a
hero. Then she’d returned those books back to their shelves, because
it’d been patently obvious that none of the authors had been actual
heroes themselves. Instead she’d just read five times over, until she’d
memorized every word, the thirty inches by Godric Gryffindor that was
all his autobiography and his life’s advice. (Or the English
translation, anyway; she couldn’t read Latin yet.) Godric Gryffindor’s
autobiography had been a lot more compressed than the books Hermione was
used to reading, he used one sentence to say things that should’ve taken
thirty inches just by themselves, and then there was another sentence
after that…

But it was clear from what she’d read that, while Defying Authority
wasn’t the point of being a hero, you couldn’t be a hero if you were too
scared to do it. And Hermione Granger knew by now how others saw her,
and she knew what other people thought she couldn’t do.

Hermione hefted her picket sign a little higher and concentrated on
breathing slowly and rhythmically instead of hyperventilating until she
fell over.

“Really?” said Miss Preece in a tone of undisguised fascination. “They
couldn’t vote?”

“Indeed,” said Professor Sinistra. (The Astronomy Professor’s hair was
still dark, and her dark face only slightly lined; Hermione would have
guessed her age at around seventy, except—) “I quite remember my
mother’s rejoicing when they announced the Qualification of Women Act,
although she did not actually qualify.” (Which meant that Professor
Sinistra had been around her Muggle family in 1918.) “And that wasn’t
the worst of it. Why, just a few centuries earlier—”

Thirty seconds later all the non-Muggle-borns, male and female both,
were staring at Professor Sinistra with utterly shocked expressions.
Hannah had dropped her sign.

“And that wasn’t the worst of it either, not by half,” finished
Professor Sinistra. “But you see where this sort of thing could
potentially lead.”

“Merlin preserve us,” said Penelope Clearwater in a strangled voice.
“You mean that’s how men would treat us if we didn’t have wands to
defend ourselves?”

“Hey!” said one of the boy prefects. “That’s not—”

There was a short, sardonic laugh from the direction of Professor
Quirrell. When Hermione turned her head to look she saw that the Defence
Professor was still idly toying with the button, not bothering to glance
up at the rest of them, as he said, “Such is human nature,
Miss Clearwater. Rest assured that you would be no kinder, if witches
had wands and men lacked them.”

“I hardly think so!” snapped Professor Sinistra.

A cold chuckle. “I suspect it happens more often than any dare suggest,
in the proudest pureblood families. Some lonely witch spies a handsome
Muggle; and thinks how very easy it would be, to slip the man a love
potion, and by him be adored alone and utterly. And since she knows he
can offer her no resistance, why, it is only natural for her to take
from him whatever she pleases—”

“Professor Quirrell!” said Professor McGonagall sharply.

“I’m sorry,” Professor Quirrell said mildly, his eyes still looking down
on the button in his hand, “are we all still pretending it doesn’t
happen? My apologies, then.”

Professor Sinistra snapped, “And I suppose that wizards don’t—”

“There are children present, Professors!” Again Professor McGonagall.

“Some do,” Professor Quirrell said equably, as though discussing the
weather. “Although personally, I don’t.”

There was a bit of silence, for a time. Hermione put up her sign
again—it had slipped down to her shoulder while she was listening. She’d
never thought of that, not even a little, and now she was trying not to
think of it, and her stomach was feeling a bit queasy. She looked in
Harry Potter’s direction, not quite knowing why she did; and she saw
that Harry’s face was perfectly still. A chill ran down her spine before
she looked away, not quite fast enough to miss the small nod that Harry
gave her, as though they were agreeing on something.

“To be fair,” Professor Sinistra said after a while, “since I received
my Hogwarts letter I can’t recall encountering any prejudice on account
of being a woman, or coloured. No, now it is all for being a
Muggle-born. I believe Miss Granger said that it was just with heroes
that she found a problem, so far?”

It took Hermione a moment to recognize that she’d been asked the
question, and then she said “Yes,” in a tone that squeaked a little.
This whole thing had blown up a bit larger than she’d imagined when
she’d started it.

“What exactly did you check, Miss Granger?” said Professor Vector. She
looked older than Professor Sinistra, her hair starting to grey a
little; Hermione hadn’t ever come close to Professor Vector in person
until the Arithmancy Professor had asked her for a button.

“Um,” Hermione said, her voice a little high, “I checked the history
books and there’s been as many woman Ministers of Magic as men. Then I
looked at Supreme Mugwumps and there were a few more wizards than
witches but not many. But if you look at people like famous Dark Wizard
hunters, or people who’ve stopped invasions of Dark creatures, or people
who’ve overthrown Dark Lords—”

“And the Dark Wizards themselves, of course,” said Professor Quirrell.
Now the Defence Professor had looked up. “You may add that to your list,
Miss Granger. Among all the suspected Death Eaters we know of only two
sorceresses, Bellatrix Black and Alecto Carrow. And I dare say that most
wizards would be hard-pressed to name a single Dark Lady besides Baba
Yaga.”

Hermione just stared at him.

He couldn’t possibly be—

“Professor Quirrell,” said Professor Vector, “what exactly are you
implying?”

The Defence Professor raised the button so that the golden-lettered
SPHEW faced them, and said, “Heroes,” then turned the button to show its
silver backside and said, “Dark Wizards. They are similar career paths
followed by similar people, and one can hardly ask why young witches are
turning away from one course without considering its reflection.”

“Oh, now I see!” said Tracey Davis, speaking up so suddenly that
Hermione gave a small start. “You’re joining our protest because you’re
worried that not enough girls are becoming Dark Witches!” Then Tracey
giggled, which Hermione couldn’t have managed at this point if you paid
her a million pounds sterling.

There was a half-smile on Professor Quirrell’s face as he replied, “Not
really, Miss Davis. In truth I do not care about that sort of thing in
the slightest. But it is futile to count the witches among Ministers of
Magic and other such ordinary folk leading ordinary existences, when
Grindelwald and Dumbledore and He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named were all men.”
The Defence Professor’s fingers idly spun the button, turning it over
and over. “Then again, only a very few folk ever do anything interesting
with their lives. What does it matter to you if they are mostly witches
or mostly wizards, so long as you are not among them? And I suspect you
will not be among them, Miss Davis; for although you are ambitious, you
have no ambition.”

“That’s not true!” said Tracey indignantly. “And what’s it mean?”

Professor Quirrell straightened from where he had been leaning against
the wall. “You were Sorted into Slytherin, Miss Davis, and I expect that
you will grasp at any opportunity for advancement which falls into your
hands. But there is no great ambition that you are driven to accomplish,
and you will not make your opportunities. At best you will grasp your
way upward into Minister of Magic, or some other high position of
unimportance, never breaking the bounds of your existence.”

Then Professor Quirrell’s gaze shifted away from Tracey, he was looking
at her, the pale blue eyes staring at her with an awful intensity—“Tell
me, Miss Granger. Do you have an ambition?”

“Professor—” squeaked the high stern voice of Professor Flitwick, and
then her Head of House’s voice cut off, and from the side of her vision
Hermione saw that Harry had laid his hand on Professor Flitwick’s
shoulder and was shaking his head, face looking very adult.

Hermione felt like a deer caught in headlights.

“What drove you to break your bounds, Miss Granger?” said the Defence
Professor, still gazing directly at her. “Why is getting good marks in
class no longer enough? Is it true greatness that you seek? Does some
aspect of the world dissatisfy you, that you must remake according to
your will? Or is this all merely a child’s game to you? I will be quite
disappointed if this is only about rivalling Harry Potter.”

“I—” said Hermione, her voice so high-pitched it made a sort of peeping
sound, but then she couldn’t think of what else to say.

“You may take a moment to think, if you like,” said Professor Quirrell.
“Pretend it is a homework essay, six inches due Thursday. I hear you are
quite eloquent in them.”

Everyone was looking at her.

“I—” said Hermione. “I don’t agree with one single thing you just said,
anywhere.”

“Well spoken,” came Professor McGonagall’s crisp voice.

Professor Quirrell’s gaze did not waver. “That is not six inches,
Miss Granger. Something drives you to defy the Headmaster’s verdict and
gather followers about yourself. Perhaps it is something you prefer not
to speak aloud?”

Hermione knew the correct answer wouldn’t impress Professor Quirrell,
but it was the correct answer, so she said it. “I don’t think you need
ambition to be a hero,” Hermione said. Her voice wavered but it didn’t
crack. “I think you just have to do what’s right. And they’re not my
followers, we’re friends.”

Professor Quirrell leaned back against the wall again. The half-smile
had faded from his face. “Most folk tell themselves they are doing
right, Miss Granger. They do not thereby rise above the ordinary.”

Hermione took a couple of deep breaths, trying to be brave. “It’s not
about being not ordinary,” she said as stoutly as she could. “But I
think if someone just tries to do what’s right, over and over again, and
they’re not too lazy to do all the work it takes, and they think about
what they’re doing, and they’re brave enough to do it even when they’re
scared—” Hermione paused for an instant, her eyes darting to Tracey and
Daphne, “—and they cleverly plan how to do it—and they don’t just do
what other people do—then I think someone like that would already get
into enough trouble.”

Some of the girls and boys chuckled, as did Professor McGonagall, who
looked wry and proud at the same time.

“You may be right about that,” said the Defence Professor, his eyes
half-lidded. He tossed Hermione the button, and she caught it without
thinking. “My donation to your cause, Miss Granger. I understand that
they are worth two Sickles.”

The Defence Professor turned and walked away without another word.

“I thought I was going to faint!” gasped Hannah after his footsteps had
faded, and she heard some of the other girls letting out their breath or
putting down their signs for a moment.

“I do too have an ambition!” said Tracey, who seemed to be almost on the
verge of tears. “I’m—I’m—I’ll figure out what it is by tomorrow, but I
have one, I’m sure!”

“If you really can’t think of anything,” Daphne said, giving Tracey a
comforting pat on the shoulder, “just go with the oldie but goodie and
try to take over the world.”

“Hey!” said Susan sharply. “You’re supposed to be heroes now! That means
you have to be good!”

“No, it’s all right,” said Lavender, “I’m pretty sure General Chaos
wants to take over the world and he’s sort of a good guy.”

More conversation was going on behind the picket line. “My goodness,”
said Penelope Clearwater. “I think that’s the most overtly evil Defence
Professor we’ve ever had.”

Professor McGonagall coughed warningly, and the Head Boy said, “You
weren’t around for Professor Barney,” which made several people twitch.

“Professor Quirrell just talks like that,” said Harry Potter, though he
sounded less certain than before. “I mean, think about it, he doesn’t do
anything like what Professor Snape does—”

“Mr Potter,” squeaked Professor Flitwick, voice polite and face stern,
“why did you ask me to stay silent?”

“Professor Quirrell was testing Hermione to see if he wanted to be her
mysterious old wizard,” Harry said. “Which totally would not have worked
out in any way, shape, or form, but she had to answer for herself.”

Hermione blinked.

Then Hermione blinked again, as she realized that it was Professor
Quirrell who was Harry Potter’s mysterious old wizard, and not
Dumbledore at all, and that really wasn’t a good sign—

A rumbling noise filled the small stone vestibule, and Hermione, her
nerves already on edge, spun rapidly around, almost dropping her protest
sign as her other hand darted toward her wand.

The gargoyles were stepping aside, the Flowing Stone rumbling like rock
as it moved like flesh. The huge ugly figures waited only briefly, dead
grey eyes staring out in silent vigil. Then the great gargoyles folded
their wings back into place and stepped back into their former
positions, the Flowing Stone not changing its outward appearance at all
as it returned from flexibility to motionlessness, and the brief gap in
the stone of Hogwarts was solid once more.

And before them all, wearing robes of bright purple that probably only
looked hideous if you were Muggle-born, stood the towering form of Albus
Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, the Headmaster of Hogwarts, the Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot, the Supreme Mugwump of the International
Confederation of Wizards, the vanquisher of the Dark Lord Grindelwald
and protector of Britain, the rediscoverer of the fabled Twelve Uses of
Dragon’s Blood, the most powerful wizard alive; and he was looking at
her, Hermione Jean Granger, General of the recently expanded Sunshine
Regiment, who was getting the best grades in the first year of Hogwarts
classes, and who had declared herself a heroine.

Even her name was shorter than his.

The Headmaster smiled benevolently at her, his wrinkle-lined eyes
twinkling cheerfully beneath their half-circles of glass, and said,
“Hello, Miss Granger.”

The odd thing was that it wasn’t nearly as scary as talking to Professor
Quirrell. “Hello, Headmaster Dumbledore,” Hermione said with only a
slight quaver in her voice.

“Miss Granger,” said Dumbledore, now looking more serious, “I think you
and I may have had a bit of a misunderstanding. I did not mean to imply
that you could not, or should not be a hero. I certainly did not mean to
imply that witches in general should not be heroes. Only that you were…
a bit young, to be thinking of such things.”

Hermione, unable to help herself, glanced at Professor McGonagall and
saw that Professor McGonagall was giving her an encouraging smile—or she
was giving the two of them some kind of smile, anyway—so Hermione looked
back at the Headmaster and said, the small quaver in her voice a little
larger now, “Since you became Headmaster forty years ago, there’ve been
eleven students to graduate Hogwarts who became heroes, I mean people
like Lupe Cazaril and so on, and ten of those were boys. Cimorene
Linderwall was the only witch.”

“Hm,” said the Headmaster. There was a thoughtful expression on his
face; he at least seemed to be thinking about it. “Miss Granger, I have
never been one for tallying such numbers. Often it is too much easier to
count than to understand. Many good people have come out of Hogwarts,
witches and wizards both; those famed as heroes are only one kind of
good person, and perhaps not the highest. You did not include Alice
Longbottom or Lily Potter in your reckoning… But leave that aside. Tell
me, Miss Granger, did you tally how many heroes came out of Hogwarts in
the forty years before me? For in that time I can recall only three now
called heroes; and among those three, no witches at all.”

“I’m not trying to say it’s just you!” Hermione said. “Only I think
maybe a lot of people, like the Headmasters before you too, maybe even
your whole society and everything, might be discouraging girls.”

The old wizard sighed. His half-glasses eyes looked only at her, as
though they were the only two people present. “Miss Granger, it might be
possible to discourage witches from becoming Charms Mistresses, or
Quidditch players, or even Aurors. But not heroes. If someone is meant
to be a hero then a hero they will be. They will walk through fire and
swim through ice. Dementors will not stop them, nor the deaths of
friends, and not discouragement either.”

“Well,” Hermione said, and paused, struggling with the words. “Well, I
mean… what if that’s not actually true? I mean, to me it seems that if
you want more witches to be heroes, you ought to teach them heroing.”

“Many boys and girls are heroes in their dreams,” Dumbledore said
quietly. He did not look at any of the other girls, only at her. “Fewer
in the waking world. Many have stood their ground and faced the darkness
when it comes for them. Fewer come for the darkness and force it to face
them. It is a hard life, sometimes lonely, often short. I have told none
to refuse that calling, but neither would I wish to increase their
number.”

Hermione hesitated; there was something in the lined face that stopped
her, like a hint to all the emotion that wasn’t being displayed, years
and years of it…

Maybe if there were more heroes, their lives wouldn’t be so lonely, or
so short.

She couldn’t bring herself to say that, though, not to him.

“But the point is moot,” said the old wizard. He smiled, a bit ruefully
she thought. “Miss Granger, you cannot teach heroism like you would
teach Charms. You cannot assign twelve inches on how to carry on when
all hope seems lost. You cannot rehearse students on when to stand up
and tell the Headmaster he has done wrong. Heroes are born, not taught.
And for whatever reason, more of them are born boys than girls.” The
Headmaster shrugged, as if to say that he was helpless to do anything
about that.

“Um,” Hermione said. She couldn’t help it, she glanced behind her.

Professor Sinistra was looking a bit indignant. And it wasn’t true that
everyone was staring at her like she’d just been silly, the way she’d
started to imagine while she was listening to Dumbledore.

Hermione turned back to face Dumbledore again, took a deep breath, and
said, “Well, maybe people who are going to be heroes, will be heroes no
matter what. But I don’t see how anyone could really know that, aside
from just saying it afterwards. And when I told you that I wanted to be
a hero, you weren’t very encouraging.”

“Mr Potter,” the Headmaster said mildly. His eyes didn’t leave hers.
“Please tell Miss Granger your impression of our own first meeting.
Would you say that I was encouraging? Speak the truth.”

There was a pause.

“Mr Potter?” said Professor Vector’s voice from behind her, sounding
puzzled.

“Um,” Harry’s voice said from further back, sounding extremely
reluctant. “Um… well, actually in my case the Headmaster set fire to a
chicken.”

“He what?” Hermione blurted, only there were several other people
exclaiming things at around the same time so she wasn’t sure anyone
heard her.

Dumbledore went on gazing at her, looking perfectly serious.

“I didn’t know about Fawkes,” Harry’s voice said rapidly, “so he told me
that Fawkes was a phœnix, while he was pointing to a chicken on Fawkes’s
stand so I’d think that was Fawkes, and then he set the chicken on
fire—and also he gave me this big rock and told me it had belonged to my
father and I ought to carry it everywhere—”

“But that’s crazy!” Susan blurted out.

There was a sudden hush.

The Headmaster slowly turned his head to stare at Susan.

“I—” said Susan. “I mean—I—”

The Headmaster leaned down until he was face to face with the young
girl.

“I didn’t—” said Susan.

Dumbledore put a finger to his lips and twiddled them, making a
wibble-wibble-wibble sound.

The Headmaster straightened up again and said, “Well, my good heroines,
it has been pleasant speaking to you, but alas, much else remains to do
this day. Still, rest assured that I am inscrutable to everyone, not
just witches.”

The gargoyles stepped aside, the Flowing Stone rumbling like rock as it
moved like flesh.

The huge ugly figures waited briefly with dead grey eyes staring out in
silent vigil, as Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, smiling as
benevolently as when he’d first emerged from his office, stepped back
into the Enchantment of the Endless Stair.

Then the great gargoyles folded their wings back into place and stepped
back into their former positions, only one last brief “Bwa ha ha!”
echoing out before the gap closed.

There was a long silence.

“He really set a chicken on fire?” said Hannah.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The eight of them had continued protesting even after that, but to be
honest their heart had gone out of it.

It had been established, after some careful questions from Professor
Flitwick, that Harry Potter hadn’t smelled the chicken burning. Which
meant that it had probably been a pebble or something, Transfigured into
a chicken and then enclosed in a Boundary Charm to make sure that no
smoke escaped into the air—both Professor Flitwick and Professor
McGonagall had been very emphatic about nobody trying that without their
supervision.

But still…

But still… what?

Hermione didn’t even know but still what.

But still.

After a lot of glances exchanged between girls none of whom had wanted
to be first to say it, Hermione had declared the protest over, and the
adults and boys had drifted off.

“You don’t think we were being unfair to Dumbledore, do you?” said Susan
as the heroines walked away to the sound of eight pairs of feet treading
on the stone paving of Hogwarts’s corridors. “I mean, if he is crazy at
everyone and not just at witches then it’s not discrimination, right?”

“I don’t want to protest against the Headmaster any more,” Hannah said
weakly. The Hufflepuff girl seemed a bit unsteady on her feet. “I don’t
care what Professor McGonagall says about him not holding it against us,
it’s just too much for my nerves.”

Lavender snorted. “I guess you won’t be slaying armies of Inferi anytime
soon—”

“Stop that!” Hermione said sharply. “Look, all of us have got to learn
to be heroines, right? It’s okay if someone doesn’t know how right
away.”

“The Headmaster doesn’t think it can be learned,” Padma said. The
Ravenclaw girl’s face was thoughtful, her steps measured as she strode
through the corridor. “The Headmaster doesn’t even think that’s a good
idea.”

Daphne was striding with her back straight and her head held bolt
upright, looking more like a Proper Young Lady in her Hogwarts robes
than Hermione could have done with her best formal dress. “The
Headmaster,” Daphne said in a precise voice, her shoes making hard,
sharp tacking sounds on the stone, “thinks the lot of us are a bunch of
silly girls playing games, and that some day Hermione might make a good
sidekick but the rest of us are hopeless.”

“Is he right?” said Parvati. The Gryffindor girl’s face was very
serious, making her look much more like her twin than she usually did.
“I mean it has to be asked—”

“No!” spat Tracey. The Slytherin girl was stalking through the hallway
looking ready to kill someone, like a miniature female Snape. Of all the
girls, Tracey was the one who Hermione knew least. Hermione had talked
to Lavender once before, but she’d never really seen Tracey except at
wand-point during a battle, until the Slytherin had jumped up from her
sofa to volunteer. “We’ll show him! We’ll show them all!”

“Okay,” said Susan, “that was definitely evil—”

“No,” said Lavender, “that’s a Chaos Legion motto, actually. Only she
didn’t do the insane laughter.”

“That’s right,” Tracey said, her voice low and grim. “This time I’m not
laughing.” The girl went on stalking through the corridor, like she had
dramatic music accompanying her that only she could hear.

(Hermione was starting to worry about what exactly the impressionable
youths of the Chaos Legion were learning from Harry Potter.)

“But—I mean—” Parvati said. She still had a contemplative look on her
face. “I mean, you can see why the Headmaster would think we were just
silly girls, right? What does protesting outside the Headmaster’s office
have to do with becoming heroines?”

“Huh,” Lavender said, now looking thoughtful herself. “That’s true. We
should do something heroic. I mean heroinic.”

“Um—” said Hannah, which very much expressed Hermione’s own feelings on
the subject.

“Well,” said Parvati, “has everyone already been through Dumbledore’s
third-floor forbidden corridor? I mean everyone in Gryffindor’s been
through it by now—”

“Hold on!” Hermione said desperately. “I don’t want you doing anything
dangerous!”

There was a pause while everyone looked at Hermione, who was realizing,
much too late, why Dumbledore hadn’t wanted anyone else to be a hero.

“I don’t think you can become a heroine if you never do anything
dangerous,” Lavender observed reasonably.

“Besides,” said Padma, a considering look on her face. “Everyone knows
that nothing really bad ever happens in Hogwarts, right? To students, I
mean, not to the Defence Professors. We’ve got all these ancient wards
and so on.”

“Um—” Hannah said again.

“Yeah,” said Parvati, “the worst that can happen is that we’ll lose a
few dozen House points or something, and there’s two of us from each
House so that’ll all come out even.”

“Why, that’s brilliant, Hermione!” said Daphne in a tone of great
amazement. “The way you set it up means we can get away with anything!
And I didn’t even notice your cunning plan until now!”

“Um—” said Hermione, Hannah, and Susan.

“Right!” said Parvati. “So now it’s time for us to become real heroines.
We’ll come for the darkness—”

“And make it face us—” said Lavender.

“And teach it to be afraid,” Tracey Davis said grimly.

71. Self Actualization, Part VI

“WELL,” Daphne whispered, keeping her voice as low as she could, “at
least now I don’t feel like the only sane person in Hogwarts any more.”

“Because now you’ve got the rest of us as friends?” whispered Lavender
Brown, who was tiptoeing along at her left side.

“I don’t think that’s what she means,” General Granger murmured from
Lavender’s own left.

They crept slowly and carefully through the corridors of Hogwarts, all
eight of them keeping both ears peeled for the slightest sound of
Trouble, just like it was a battle and they were looking for enemy
soldiers to ambush; only in this case they were looking for bullies to
Vanquish and victims to Rescue in the span between the end of breakfast
time and when Lavender and Parvati had to get to their Herbology class.

Lavender had argued that if one first-year girl could take down three
older bullies, then eight first-year girls ought to be able to outfight
twenty-four older bullies because of Multiplication.

Judging by her frantic spluttering and waving of hands, General Granger
hadn’t found this convincing.

Padma had stayed silent for a bit during the ensuing argument, and then
observed thoughtfully that even in Hogwarts, beating up first-year girls
probably wouldn’t be good for your reputation as a bully.

Parvati had straightened up at this, exclaiming that this meant they
were the only ones who could do something about Hogwarts’s bully
problem, which made it really truly heroinic. Plus the whole reason
their parents had moved to Britain was so that the two of them could
attend the world’s only magical school with a 0% fatality rate, and what
was the point if they didn’t take advantage and try a few things?

To which General Granger had responded that Parvati didn’t understand
the point of a perfect safety record at all—

Lavender had said that if they were really all friends together and not
Hermione’s followers like Professor Quirrell thought, then they should
vote on things like this.

Daphne had expected that hers would be the deciding vote after Hermione
and Susan and Hannah voted no. And so Daphne had considered it carefully
after her first flush of enthusiasm wore off. She was a Slytherin, after
all, and that meant it was her responsibility to keep a watchful eye on
their own interests while they were all running around trying to help
people—her job to figure out how risky it really was, and whether it
would be worth it for them, just like Mother would have done in her
place. Always looking out for yourself and your friends like that, was
what real Slytherining was all about…

Hannah Abbott, the nervous little Hufflepuff girl, had in a small
trembling voice said “Yes.”

And now Daphne and Susan and Hermione had to stay with the other five,
they couldn’t possibly let the others go off on their own. Because no
Gryffindor would ever live down hurting the last surviving child of the
Bones family, and no Slytherin would dare assault a daughter of the
Noble and Most Ancient House of Greengrass. (Daphne hoped so, anyway.)
And General Granger who’d started the whole thing… you didn’t even have
to ask.

The corridors of Hogwarts passed them by one after another, their tense
hands never straying far from their wands, as stone and wood and
Everburning Torches came into vision and then moved past. At one point
they heard footsteps and drew in their breath, hands almost dropping to
their wands, but it was just a lone older Ravenclaw who looked at them
curiously before sniffing and dropping his head back to his book as he
walked on.

The heroines crept past solemn oaken panels carved with gilded frescos,
and came to a dead end leading into a boys’ bathroom, and turned around,
and wandered back through the solemn oaken panels carved with gilded
frescos, and then turned through dusty old brick corridors grouted with
worn cement, which sort of led them in a circle actually, so they
consulted a portrait and then went down a different dusty old brick
corridor instead, that took them to a brief rise of marble stairs that
should’ve put them on the third-and-a-halfth floor if it’d been anywhere
but Hogwarts, and then it was back to tiled stone pavement again, and
skylights that let shafts of sunlight pour down even though they were
nowhere near the roof, and after they’d followed that passageway around
a few corners it took them to another boys’ bathroom, clearly marked
with a plaque showing the silhouette of a robed figure whizzing into a
toilet.

The eight of them stood before the closed door and stared with a certain
amount of weariness.

“I’m bored,” said Lavender.

Padma made a show of taking a pocket watch out of her robes and looking
at it. “Sixteen minutes and thirty seconds,” she said. “A new record for
the longest attention span in Gryffindor.”

“I don’t think this is going to work either,” said Susan. “And I’m a
Hufflepuff.”

“Y’know,” Lavender said thoughtfully, “I wonder if maybe what really
makes someone a hero, is that when they try something like this,
something interesting actually happens.”

“I bet you’re right,” said Tracey. “I bet if we had Harry Potter with
us, we’d run into three bullies and a hidden room full of treasure in
the first five minutes. I bet that all General Chaos has to do is go to
the bathroom and he, like, finds Slytherin’s Chamber of Secrets or
something—”

Daphne couldn’t quite let that one go past. “You think Lord Slytherin
would’ve put the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets in a bathroom—”

“What I’m saying,” said Susan, as Tracey was opening her mouth to reply,
“is that we’ve got no way of actually finding any bullies. I mean, all
they’ve got to do is find a Hufflepuff somewhere, but we’ve got to run
across them at exactly the right time, d’you see? Which is a very good
problem because if we did find them we’d all get squished like bugs.
Can’t we just do the forbidden third-floor corridor like we’re supposed
to?”

Lavender snorted scornfully. “You don’t become a real heroine just by
doing the forbidden things the Headmaster tells you not to do!”

(Daphne’s mind tried to wrap around this statement as she silently
thanked the Sorting Hat for not putting her anywhere near Gryffindor.)

“Come to think…” Parvati said slowly, “I mean, what’re the odds that
Harry Potter would run across those five bullies on his first morning of
school? He must’ve had some way of finding them.”

Daphne happened to be standing where looking at Parvati let her see
Hermione, so she noticed the Ravenclaw girl’s expression change—and then
she realized that the Sunshine General had also found some bullies just
recently—

“Oh!” said Padma in a tone of sudden realization. “Of course! He got
told by the ghost of Salazar Slytherin!”

“What?” said Daphne at the same time as several other people.

“That’s who the ghost was that scared me, I’m pretty sure,” Padma
explained. “I mean I only figured it out afterwards, but… yeah. Salazar
Slytherin’s ghost doesn’t like it when Slytherins bully people, he
thinks it shames his name, and the ghost is still keyed into the
Hogwarts wards so he knows everything that happens, I bet.”

Daphne’s mouth was hanging open; and she saw that Hannah had put a hand
to her forehead and was leaning against the stone walls, while Tracey’s
eyes were blazing like little brown stars.

Salazar Slytherin’s ghost?

Had leagued himself with Harry Potter?

And had sent Hermione Granger to stop Derrick’s crew?

She would have paid a hundred Galleons to be there when Draco Malfoy was
told about this.

Although considering how fast rumours spread through Hogwarts, now that
Padma had spilled the beans, Millicent had probably told him thirty
minutes ago…

In fact… now that Daphne thought about it…

“So,” said Parvati. “We’ve got to ask the Boy-Who-Lived where to find
Salazar Slytherin’s ghost? Wow, I guess if I’m saying stuff like that
out loud, I might actually be turning into a heroine—”

“Yes!” said Lavender. “We’ve got to ask the Boy-Who-Lived where to find
Salazar Slytherin’s ghost!”

“We’ve got to ask… the Boy-Who-Lived… where to find Salazar Slytherin’s
ghost…” repeated Hannah in a nervous voice, like she was forcing herself
to say it.

“And if that doesn’t work,” shouted Tracey, “we’ll stun Harry Potter,
tie him up and bring him with us!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It said something, Hermione Granger thought, and it was something rather
sad—as the eight of them strolled back through the maze of twisty little
passages that was Hogwarts, their time before the next class having run
out without finding any bullies—that she genuinely didn’t know whether
Harry Potter had been led around by the ghost of Salazar Slytherin or a
phœnix or what. And whatever Harry had done, she hoped it didn’t work
for them. And most of all she hoped that the others didn’t vote for
Tracey’s idea of stunning Harry Potter and carting his unconscious body
around with them to attract Adventures. That couldn’t possibly work in
real life, or, if it did, she was giving up.

Hermione looked from witch to witch, Tracey chatting with Lavender, and
the others making occasional remarks; and her gaze caught on a girl who
was subdued and quiet, the one person whose thoughts right now she
couldn’t guess at all.

“Hannah?” she said to the girl walking alongside her. Hermione tried to
make her voice as gentle as she could. “You don’t have to answer, but is
it okay if I ask why you voted yes on fighting bullies?”

Hermione had thought she’d made her voice soft, but everyone stopped
walking, and Lavender and Tracey halted their conversation and looked at
them.

Hannah’s cheeks were already reddening, and just as Hannah opened her
mouth—

“It’s ’cause she’s got more courage than you think, obviously,” said
Lavender.

Hannah paused with her mouth open.

She closed her mouth.

She swallowed, hard and visibly, while her cheeks reddened even further.

Then Hannah took a deep breath, and said, in a small voice, “There’s a
boy I like.”

The Hufflepuff girl flinched as she said it, and her head darted around
nervously to look at everyone looking at her, while the pause and
silence stretched.

“Um, okay?” Susan said eventually.

“I’ve got five boys I like,” said Lavender.

“Padma and I knew we’d both like the same boys,” said Parvati, “so we
made a list and flipped a Knut to see who got to pick first.”

“I know who I’m destined to marry,” said Tracey. “I don’t care what the
world says, he’s meant to be mine!”

This made all the other girls look expectantly at Hermione, whose brain
had gone ahead and flushed Tracey’s last statement entirely so it could
focus on just the first thing Hannah had said.

“Um,” said Hermione. She carefully continued keeping her voice gentle.
“Hannah, the reason why you joined the Society for Promotion of Heroic
Equality for Witches was that there’s a boy who might like you more if
you become a hero?”

The Hufflepuff girl nodded again, her cheeks reddening even further
while she stared down at her own reflection in her black-polished shoes.

“She likes Neville Longbottom, actually,” Daphne said. The Slytherin
gave a woeful sigh. “And unfortunately for her, he’s going to marry
someone else. It’s very tragic.”

This produced a high-pitched eeping sound from Hannah as she went on
staring at her feet.

“Wait what?” said Lavender. “Neville’s going to marry someone else? How
do you know about this? Who?”

Daphne just shook her head sadly with a downcast expression.

“Excuse me,” said Hermione, and then when the others looked at her
again, “Ah…” while she tried to organize her thoughts. “I mean, um…
Hannah… trying to become a hero so that a boy will like you isn’t very
feminist.”

“It’s pronounced feminine actually,” said Padma.

“And why’re you calling Hannah unfeminine?” said Susan. “There’s nothing
unfeminine about wanting to impress a boy.”

“Besides,” said Parvati, sounding puzzled, “isn’t the whole point that
we’re trying to be heroes even though that isn’t feminine?”

The ensuing discussion would not be remembered by Hermione Granger as
one of her most successful forays into the realms of political
education. She tried to explain, and then after the resulting argument
tried to explain again, while the other seven girls looked at her more
and more skeptically. Afterwards Daphne declared in the imperious tones
of the future Lady Greengrass that if this feminism business meant girls
weren’t allowed to pursue boys in whichever way they pleased, then
feminism could stay in the Muggle lands where it belonged. Lavender
suggested that maybe witchism could say that witches got to do anything
they wanted, which sounded like more fun than feminism. And finally
Padma closed off further discussion by observing wearily that she didn’t
see much point to going on arguing, since SPHEW wasn’t about anything to
do with feminism in the first place, it was just about more girls
becoming heroes.

Hermione had given up at that point.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As their Charms session that day ended and the first-year Ravenclaws
began shuffling out of the class, Hermione was already wincing to
herself. They’d made it to class just barely before the opening gong,
they’d had to run right over to their desks and sit down, so there
hadn’t been time for the awful thing to happen yet; but that just meant
that Hermione got to look forward to the coming disaster for the whole
class.

Sure enough, after Professor Flitwick squeaked his dismissal and
everyone rose from their chairs, Harry began walking toward her; and for
her own part Hermione shoved her book into her mokeskin pouch and very
quickly walked over to the door and threw it open and headed into the
corridors, and of course Harry followed her with a surprised look
because they had a library session scheduled—

“Hermione?” Harry said as he closed the door behind him. “What’s wrong?”

The door flew open behind Harry not a moment after he closed it, almost
hitting Harry as he stepped out of the way, and Padma Patil stepped out
of the classroom with a dreadful look of determination upon her face.

“Excuse me, Mr Potter,” came the awful words, the young girl’s high
voice resounding through the corridor like the gloomy bells of doom,
“can I ask you for help with something?”

Harry’s eyebrows drew up, and he said, “You can ask, of course.”

“Can you tell us how to talk to Salazar Slytherin’s ghost? We want him
to tell us where to find bullies, like he tells you.”

There was a little bit of silence in the corridor outside the classroom.

The door opened again, and Su Li peered out with an inquiring look—

“Well, we’ve got to get to the library,” Harry said quite casually, his
face looking relaxed, “would you mind following us?” and began to walk
off in the direction that led to the library on odd-numbered days of the
month, and Su made like she was going to follow but Harry’s face turned
toward her for a moment.

It wasn’t until Harry had rounded a corner that he drew his wand, said
in a low precise voice “Quietus” and then turned to Padma and said, “An
interesting guess, Miss Patil.”

Padma looked rather smug, then; and said, “I should’ve figured it out
earlier, really. There was that hiss in the ghost’s voice, I should’ve
thought Parselmouth right away, even before he started talking about
Godric Gryffindor.”

Harry’s face didn’t change. “May I ask, Miss Patil, whether you’ve
shared this thought with—”

“She said it in front of everyone in SPHEW,” Hermione said.

Harry’s eyes had that look they had when he was very rapidly calculating
something, and then he said, “Hermione, what’s the chance that—”

“She said it in front of Lavender and Tracey.”

“Um,” said Padma. “Should I not’ve done that?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Wait here,” growled Mr Goyle, and went around the corner; and there was
the sound of him knocking on Draco Malfoy’s private room.

There was a bit of a queasy feeling in Tracey’s stomach, and she
reminded herself again that since Padma had spilled the beans someone
was bound to tell Draco Malfoy, and it might as well be her, and it
wasn’t as if she owed Harry Potter anything, and a Slytherin had to do
what was necessary to achieve her Ambitions.

She’d been collecting Ambitions ever since Professor Quirrell told her
off, and so far she’d decided that she wanted to own her own Nimbus 2000
broomstick, become super famous, marry Harry Potter, eat Chocolate Frogs
for breakfast every day, and defeat at least three Dark Lords just to
show Professor Quirrell who was ordinary.

“Mr Malfoy will see you,” said the low, menacing voice of Mr Goyle as he
returned. “And you’d better hope he doesn’t think you’re wasting his
time.” The boy loomed at her briefly, and then stepped aside.

Tracey added having her own servants to her list of Ambitions, and
entered.

The Malfoy private bedroom looked just like Daphne’s. She’d been
privately hoping for diamond chandeliers or golden frescos on the
walls—she’d never have said it in front of Daphne, but the House of
Malfoy was a step up from Greengrass. But it was just a small bedroom
like Daphne’s, and the only difference was that Malfoy’s stuff was
decorated in silver snakes instead of emerald plants.

As she stepped through the doorway, Draco Malfoy—who was perfectly
groomed even inside his own bedroom—rose up from his desk chair to greet
her with a small friendly bow, wearing a charming smile just like she
was someone who mattered, which made Tracey so flustered that she forgot
everything she’d rehearsed inside her head and just blurted out, “I’ve
got something to tell you!”

“Yes, Gregory said so,” Draco Malfoy said smoothly. “Please sit down,
Miss Davis.” He gestured to his own desk chair, even as he sat down on
his bed.

She felt somewhat light-headed as she carefully sat herself down in
Malfoy’s own chair, her fingers unthinkingly fiddling with how her dress
robes fell across her knees, trying to make them look as elegant and
uncreased as Draco Malfoy’s—

“So, Miss Davis,” said Draco Malfoy. “What did you want to tell me?”

Tracey hesitated, and then when Malfoy’s face started to look a bit
impatient, just stammered it all out, everything Padma had said about
Salazar Slytherin’s ghost sending Harry Potter to stop bullies and also
what Daphne had told her about Hermione Granger being in on it—

Draco Malfoy’s expression didn’t change at all as she spoke, not even in
the slightest, and it dawned on Tracey with a sickening lurch in her
stomach.

“You don’t believe me!” she said.

There was a slight pause.

“Well,” said Draco Malfoy, with a smile that wasn’t quite as charming as
his last one, “I do believe that’s what Padma said and what Daphne said,
so thank you anyway, Miss Davis.” The boy rose from where he’d been
sitting on his bed, and Tracey, not even thinking, rose from the chair.

As he was escorting her to the door, just as he was about to turn the
knob, it occurred to Tracey that—“You didn’t ask what I wanted for the
information,” she said.

Draco Malfoy gave her some kind of look, she didn’t quite know what it
was supposed to mean, and he didn’t say anything.

“Well, anyway,” Tracey said, making an on-the-spot change to her
previous Plans, “I don’t want anything for the information, I was just
being friendly.”

A brief look of surprise crossed Draco Malfoy’s face for just an instant
before his expression flattened again and he said, “It’s not that easy
to become friends with a Malfoy, Miss Davis.”

Tracey smiled, and meant it. “Well, I’ll just go on being friendly,
then,” she said, and left the room with a skip in her step, feeling like
a real Slytherin for maybe the first time in her life, and having just
decided that Draco Malfoy would be one of her husbands too.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the girl was gone, Gregory came in, shut the door again and said,
“Are you alright, Mr Malfoy?”

Draco said nothing to his servant and friend. His eyes gazed off into
nowhere, like he was trying to stare through the wall of his bedroom,
through the Hogwarts lake that surrounded the Slytherin dungeons,
through Earth’s crust and atmosphere and the interstellar dust of the
Milky Way, into the utterly empty and lightless void between galaxies
which no wizard and no scientist had ever seen.

“Mr Malfoy?” Gregory said, starting to sound a little worried.

“I can’t believe I believed every word of that,” said Draco.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Daphne finished her final inch of Transfiguration and looked up across
the Slytherin common room, at where Millicent Bulstrode was still
working on her own homework. It was time to come to a Decision.

If SPHEW did go around trying to stun bullies, the bullies wouldn’t like
it, that was certain. And they’d try to do something unpleasant about
it, which was also certain. On the other hand, if the bullies got really
nasty then Hermione could ask Harry Potter for help, or they could pool
their combined Quirrell points and ask the Defence Professor for a
favour… No, the thing that Daphne was really worried about was if this
business got them in bad with Professor Snape. You didn’t want to ever
end up on the wrong side of Professor Snape.

But since the day she’d challenged Neville to a Most Ancient Duel, she’d
noticed people looking at her differently. Even the Slytherins who’d
made fun of her were looking at her differently. It was dawning on
Daphne that being the daughter of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Greengrass brought in a lot more respect if you were a beautiful heroine
born to a Most Ancient House, and not just a pretty noble girl. It was
the difference between having your role played by the lead actress and
having your role played by a two-Galleon extra with a screechy laugh.

Fighting bullies might not be the best way to become a heroine. But
Father had once told her that the trouble with passing up opportunities
was that it was habit-forming. If you told yourself you were waiting for
a better opportunity next time, why, next time you’d probably tell
yourself the same thing. Father had said that most people spent their
whole lives waiting for an opportunity that was good enough, and then
they died. Father had said that while seizing opportunities would mean
that all sorts of things went wrong, it wasn’t nearly as bad as being a
hopeless lump. Father had said that after she got into the habit of
seizing opportunities, then it was time to start being picky about them.

On the other hand, Mother had warned her not to take all of Father’s
advice, and said that Daphne wasn’t allowed to ask about Father’s sixth
year in Hogwarts until she was at least thirty years old.

But in the end Father had persuaded Mother to marry him and successfully
plotted his way into a Most Ancient House, so there was that.

Millicent Bulstrode finished her homework and began putting her things
away.

Daphne stood up from her desk, and walked over.

Millicent swung out her legs from the table and stood up, slinging her
book bag over one shoulder, then looked over at where Daphne was
approaching, the girl’s expression puzzled.

“Hey, Millicent,” Daphne said as she drew near, making her voice low and
excited, “guess what I figured out today?”

“The thing about Salazar Slytherin’s ghost helping Granger?” said
Millicent. “I already heard about that—”

“No,” Daphne said in a hushed whisper, “this is even better.”

“Really?” Millicent said, in an equally low excited voice. “What is it?”

Daphne looked around conspiratorially. “Come to my room and I’ll tell
you.”

They went off toward the stairs that led downward, the private rooms
were even lower in the lake than the seventh-year dorms…

Soon enough Daphne was sitting in her comfy desk chair and Millicent had
bounced over to the edge of her bed.

“Quietus,” said Daphne, when they were both seated; and then instead of
putting her wand away inside her robes, Daphne just let her hand fall
naturally down to her side, still holding the wand, just in case.

“All right!” said Millicent. “What is it?”

“You know what I figured out?” said Daphne. “I figured out that you get
the gossip so fast, you know about things before they actually happen.”

Daphne had half-expected Millicent to turn white and fall over, and she
didn’t really, but the girl did flinch pretty hard before she started
stammering denials.

“Don’t worry,” said Daphne with her sweetest smile, “I won’t tell anyone
else you’re a seer. I mean, we’re friends, right?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rianne Felthorne, seventh-year of Slytherin, was working diligently on
yet another two-foot essay (she was taking everything except Divination
and Muggle Studies and her N.E.W.T. year seemed to consist entirely of
homework) when her Head of House strode up to the table she was working
at and barked “You will come with me, Miss Felthorne!” and walked away
even as she frantically began putting away her parchment and book and
quill.

When she caught up with Professor Snape, he was waiting just outside the
room and gazing at her with half-lidded eyes that seemed far too
intense; and before she could ask what this was about he spun without a
word and stalked off through the hallways, so that she had to scramble
to keep up.

Their walk took them down a flight of stairs, and then another, below
what she’d thought was the lowest level of the Slytherin dungeons. And
the corridors began to look older in their appearance, the architecture
reverting back in time by centuries into roughened stone held together
by crude-looking mortar. She began to wonder if Professor Snape was
taking her to the real dungeons that she’d heard rumours of, the true
dungeons of Hogwarts that had been sealed off to all but faculty; and if
maybe Professor Snape did terrible things down there to innocent
helpless young girls but that was probably just wishful thinking on her
part.

They went down another flight of stairs, and came out into a room that
was no room at all, but an empty rock cavern with a single door, pierced
by many dark openings and lit by a single torch of ancient style that
blazed alight as they entered.

Professor Snape took out his wand, then, and began to cast Charm after
Charm, she lost track of how many; and when the Potions Master was done
he turned back toward her, locked his intense eyes on hers, and said in
a level voice unlike his usual drawl, “You will say nothing to anyone of
this matter, Miss Felthorne, nothing now or ever. If that is acceptable
to you, nod. If not, we will turn and go.”

She nodded, frightened and with a strange hope dawning in her heart
(well, not exactly her heart).

“The task I have for you is very simple, Miss Felthorne,” said Professor
Snape’s toneless voice, “and your extremely generous pay of fifty
Galleons is merely to compensate you for being Memory-Charmed
afterwards.”

She drew an involuntary breath. Her family might be rich but they had
other daughters and kept her on a tight leash and it was certainly a lot
of money for her.

Then her ears caught up with the words Memory-Charmed and for a moment
she felt outraged, there was no point if she couldn’t keep the memories,
what sort of girl did Professor Snape think she was?

“You surely know,” said Severus Snape, “of Miss Hermione Granger, the
Sunshine General?”

“What?” said Rianne Felthorne in sudden horror and disgust. “She’s in
her first year! Ew!”

72. Self Actualization, Part VII:Plausible Deniability

THE winter Sun had well set by the time dinner ended, and so it was amid
the peaceful light of stars twinkling down from the enchanted ceiling of
the Great Hall that Hermione left for the Ravenclaw Tower alongside her
study partner Harry Potter, who lately seemed to have a ridiculous
amount of time for studying. She hadn’t the faintest idea of when Harry
was doing his actual homework, except that it was getting done, maybe by
house elves while he slept.

Nearly every single pair of eyes in the whole Hall lay on them as they
passed through the mighty doors of the dining-room, which were more like
siege gates of a castle than anything students ought to go through on
the way back from supper.

They went out without speaking, and walked until the distant babble of
student conversation had faded into silence; and then the two of them
went on a little further through the stone corridors before Hermione
finally spoke.

“Why’d you do that, Harry?”

“Do what?” said the Boy-Who-Lived in an abstracted tone, as if his mind
were quite elsewhere, thinking about vastly more important things.

“I mean, why didn’t you just tell them no?”

“Well,” Harry said, as their shoes pattered across the tiles, “I can’t
just go around saying ‘no’ every time someone asks me about something I
haven’t done. I mean, suppose someone asks me, ‘Harry, did you pull the
prank with the invisible paint?’ and I say ‘No’ and then they say
‘Harry, do you know who messed with the Gryffindor Seeker’s broomstick?’
and I say ‘I refuse to answer that question.’ It’s sort of a giveaway.”

“And that’s why,” Hermione said carefully, “you told everyone…” She
concentrated, remembering the exact words. “That if hypothetically there
was a conspiracy, you could not confirm or deny that the true master of
the conspiracy was Salazar Slytherin’s ghost, and in fact you wouldn’t
even be able to admit the conspiracy existed so people ought to stop
asking you questions about it.”

“Yep,” said Harry Potter, smiling slightly. “That’ll teach them to take
hypothetical scenarios too seriously.”

“And you told me not to answer anything—”

“They might not believe you, if you deny it,” said Harry. “So it’s
better to say nothing, unless you want them to think you’re a liar.”

“But—” Hermione said helplessly. “But—but now people think I’m doing
things for Salazar Slytherin!” The way the Gryffindors had been looking
at her—the way the Slytherins had been looking at her—

“It goes along with being a hero,” Harry said. “Have you seen what the
Quibbler says about me?”

For a brief second Hermione imagined her parents reading a newspaper
article about her, and instead of the story being about her winning a
nationwide spelling bee or any of the other ways she’d imagined getting
into the papers, the headline said “HERMIONE GRANGER GETS DRACO MALFOY
PREGNANT”.

It was enough to make you think twice about the whole heroine business.

Harry’s voice turned a bit more formal. “Speaking of which,
Miss Granger, how goes your latest quest?”

“Well,” said Hermione, “unless the ghost of Salazar Slytherin really
does show up and tell us where to find bullies, I don’t think we’re
going to have much luck.” Not that she was sorry about that.

She glanced over at Harry, and saw the boy giving her a peculiarly
intense look.

“You know, Hermione,” the boy said quietly, as though to make sure that
nobody else in the world heard, “I think you’re right. I think some
people get a lot more help than others in becoming heroes. And I don’t
think that’s fair, either.”

And Harry grabbed at her witch’s robes where they lay over her arm, and
hustled her into a side-hall of the corridor they were walking through,
her mouth gaping open in surprise even as Harry’s wand came into his
hand, they rounded a curve of the side-hall and it was so narrow that it
was almost pushing her and Harry into each other, even as Harry pointed
to the way they’d come and softly said “Quietus”, then a moment later,
in the other direction, “Quietus” again.

The boy looked searchingly around them, not just to every side, but even
upward toward the ceiling and down toward the floor.

And then Harry stuck a hand in his pouch and said, “Invisibility cloak.”

“Gleep?” said Hermione.

Harry was already drawing out folds of shimmering black fabric from the
mokeskin device. “Don’t worry,” the boy said with a small grin, “they’re
so rare that nobody bothered to make a school rule against them…”

And then Harry held out the dark velvet mesh to her, and said, his voice
strangely formal, “I do not give you, but loan you, my cloak, unto
Hermione Jean Granger. Protect her well.”

She stared at the shimmering velvet of the cloak, cloth that swallowed
all the light that fell on it except what glinted from small strange
reflections, fabric so perfectly black it should’ve shown dust or lint
or something but it didn’t, the longer you looked the more you felt like
what you were seeing wasn’t really there at all, but then you blinked
again and it was just a black cloak.

“Take it, Hermione.”

Hardly even thinking, Hermione stretched out her hand to grasp the
fabric; and then just as her brain woke up and she started to pull her
hand back, Harry let go of the cloak and it started to fall and she
grabbed at it without thinking. And the instant her fingers touched and
held the cloak she felt an intangible jolt run through her like picking
up her wand for the first time; and it was like she heard a song being
sung, ever so faintly, in the back of her mind.

“That’s one of my quest items, Hermione,” Harry said softly. “It
belonged to my father, and it’s not something I can replace, if it’s
lost. Don’t loan it to anyone else, don’t show it to anyone, don’t tell
anyone it exists… but if you want to borrow it for a while, just come to
me and ask.”

Hermione finally tore her eyes loose from the depthless black folds and
stared back up at Harry.

“I can’t—”

“You certainly can,” Harry said. “Because there’s nothing even the
tiniest bit fair about my finding this gift-wrapped in a box next to my
bed one morning, and you… not.” Harry paused thoughtfully. “Unless you
did get your own invisibility cloak, in which case never mind.”

Then the implications of invisibility cloak finally dawned on her, and
she pointed a shocked finger at Harry, though they were close enough
together that she couldn’t quite straighten her arm properly, and her
voice rose with considerable indignation as she said, “So that’s how you
disappeared from the Potions cupboard! And the time when—” and then she
trailed off, because even with an invisibility cloak she still couldn’t
see how Harry had…

Harry buffed his fingernails on his robes with artful nonchalance, and
said, “Well, you knew there had to be some trick to it, right? And now
the heroine will mysteriously know where and when to find bullies—just
like she listened to the bullies planning it, even though nobody her age
could possibly have turned herself invisible to spy on them.”

There was a pause and a silence.

“Harry—” she said. “I’m—I’m not sure any more that fighting bullies is
such a good idea.”

Harry’s eyes stayed steady on hers. “Because the other girls might get
hurt?”

She nodded, just nodded.

“That’s their choice, Hermione, just like it’s yours. I decided not to
do the obvious stupid thing that everyone does in books, try to keep you
safe and protected and helpless, and have you get really angry at me,
and push me away while you go off on your own and get into even more
trouble, and then heroically pull through it successfully, after which
I’d finally have my epiphany and realize that blah blah blah etcetera. I
know how that part of my life story goes, so I’m just skipping over it.
If I can predict what I’m going to think later, I might as well go ahead
and think it now. Anyway, my point is, you shouldn’t smother your
friends to keep them safe, either. Just tell them up front it’s
predictably going to go horribly wrong, and if they still want to be
heroines after that, fine.”

It was at times like this that Hermione wondered if she was ever going
to get used to the way Harry thought. “Harry, I really,” her voice stuck
for a second, “really, really don’t want them getting hurt! Especially
because of something I started!”

“Hermione,” Harry said seriously, “I’m pretty sure you did the right
thing. I don’t see what could realistically happen to them that would be
worse for them, in the long run, than not trying.”

“What if they get badly hurt?” Hermione said. Her voice felt blocked in
her throat; she remembered Captain Ernie saying how Harry had just
stared straight into the eyes of a bully as the bully bent his finger
back, before Professor Sprout had arrived to save him; and there was
another thought that came after that, about Hannah and her delicate
hands with the fingernails that she carefully painted in Hufflepuff
yellow every morning, but that wasn’t allowed to be imagined. “And
then—they’ll never do anything courageous, ever again—”

“I don’t think it works like that,” Harry said steadily. “Even if it all
goes mind-bogglingly wrong, I don’t think it works like that inside a
human mind. The important thing is believing about yourself that you’re
someone who can break your boundaries. Trying and getting hurt can’t
possibly be worse for you than being… stuck.”

“What if you’re wrong, Harry?”

Harry paused for a moment, and then shrugged a little sadly, and said,
“What if I’m right?”

Hermione looked back at the black mesh running over her hand. From the
inside the cloak felt strangely soft and yet firm against her palm, as
if it was trying to give her hand a reassuring hug.

Then she lifted her arm back up, holding the cloak back to Harry.

Harry didn’t move to take it.

“I—” said Hermione. “I mean, thank you, thank you a lot, but I’m still
thinking about it, so you can take it back for now. And… Harry, I don’t
think it’s right to spy on people—”

“Not even on known bullies, to rescue their victims?” Harry said. “I’ve
never been bullied, but I’ve been through a realistic simulation, and it
didn’t feel very pleasant. Have you ever been bullied, Hermione?”

“No,” she said in a quiet voice, and went on holding out Harry’s
invisibility cloak to him.

Finally Harry took back his cloak—she felt a small twitch of loss as the
inaudible song vanished from the back of her mind—and started to stuff
the black material back into his pouch.

As the pouch ate the last of the fabric, Harry turned from her, to break
the Quieting Barrier—

“And, um,” Hermione said. “That’s not the Cloak of Invisibility, is it?
The one we read about in the library on page eighteen of Paula Vieira’s
translation of Gottschalk’s An Illustrated Scroll of Lost Devices?”

Harry turned his head back, grinning slightly, and said in exactly the
same tone of voice he’d used earlier with the other students at dinner,
“I cannot confirm or deny that I possess magical artifacts of incredible
power.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Hermione climbed into bed that night she was still trying to
decide. Her life had been simpler at dinner time, back when there hadn’t
been any practical way for them to find bullies; and now she had to
choose again; not for herself, this time, but for her friends. In her
mind’s eye she kept seeing Dumbledore’s lined face and the pain it
hadn’t quite hidden, and in her mind’s ears she kept hearing Harry’s
voice saying ‘That’s their choice, Hermione, just like it’s yours.’

And her hand kept remembering the sensation of the cloak against her
fingers, replaying it over and over in her mind. There was a power to
the feeling that compelled her thoughts to return to it, and to the song
she’d heard / hadn’t heard in a part of her mind and magic which now lay
silent once more.

Harry had spoken to the cloak like it was a person, telling it to take
good care of her. Harry had said the cloak had belonged to his father,
that he couldn’t replace it if it was lost…

But… Harry wouldn’t really do that, would he?

Just hand her one of the three Deathly Hallows created centuries before
Hogwarts?

She could say that she felt flattered, but this went way beyond feeling
flattered, into making her wonder just what she was to Harry, exactly.

Maybe Harry was the sort of person who went around loaning ancient lost
magical artifacts to anyone he considered a friend, but—

But when she thought about which part of his life Harry had said he’d
skipped over, the part where he tried to keep her safe and protected…

Hermione stared up at the ceiling of the Ravenclaw dorm. Somewhere
beyond her bed, Mandy and Su were talking. She’d turned up her Quieting
Charm to where she couldn’t hear the exact words, but could still hear
their faint murmur; there was something comforting about sleeping in a
dorm with the other girls. Harry kept his own Quieter turned up all the
way, she knew.

She was starting to wonder if maybe Harry actually did, well…

You know…

Like her.

It took Hermione Granger a long time to fall asleep that night.

And when she woke up the next morning there was a small slip of
parchment peeking out from under her pillow which said At half-past ten
you will find a bully in the fourth passageway to the left of the hall
leaving the Potions classroom—S.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Hermione entered the Great Hall that morning, her stomach was
filled with flying butterflies the size of Hippogriffs; even as she
approached the Ravenclaw breakfast table she still hadn’t decided what
to do.

There was an empty place next to Padma, she saw. That would be where to
sit down, if she was going to tell Padma and then ask Padma to tell
Daphne and Tracey.

Hermione walked toward the empty place next to Padma.

There were words waiting in her throat, Padma, I got a mysterious
message—

And she could feel a huge brick wall inside her, stopping the words from
coming out. She’d be putting Hannah and Susan and Daphne in danger.
Taking them and leading them by the hand straight into trouble. That was
Wrong.

Or she could just go try to handle the bully herself, without telling
her friends anything, and that, quite obviously, was also Wrong.

Hermione knew she was being faced with a Moral Dilemma, just like all
those wizards and witches she’d read about in stories. Only in stories
people always got a right choice and a wrong choice, not two wrong ones,
which seemed a bit unfair. But she had the sense, somehow—maybe it came
from the way Harry always talked about how the history books would see
them—that she was faced with a Heroic Decision, and that her whole life
might end up going one way or another, depending on what she chose right
now, this morning.

Hermione sat down at the table without looking to either side, just
gazing at the plate and silverware like they might have answers hidden
inside, thinking as hard as she ever had, and a few seconds later she
heard Padma’s voice whispering almost in her ear, “Daphne says she knows
where a bully’s going to be at ten-thirty today.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Doomed.

They were all doomed, in Susan Bones’s opinion.

Auntie sometimes told stories which started out like this, people doing
something they knew was stupid, and the stories usually ended with
someone being doomed all over the floor and all over the walls and
getting on Auntie’s shoes.

“Hey, Padma,” muttered Parvati, her voice just barely audible over the
soft impacts of eight girls tiptoeing through the corridor leading to
the Potions classroom, “d’you know why Hermione’s been sighing all
morning—”

“No talking!” hissed Lavender, the harsh whisper sounding much louder
than Parvati’s mutter. “You never know when Evil might be listening!”

“Shhh!” said three other girls even more loudly.

Utterly, totally, quite extremely doomed.

As they approached the fourth passageway to the left of the Potions
classroom, where Daphne’s mysterious informant had said the bullying
would take place, the eight of them moved slower, the sound of their
feet got softer, and finally General Granger made the gesture that meant
Halt, I’ll look ahead.

Lavender raised a hand, then, and when Hermione turned to look at her,
Lavender, looking puzzled, pointed straight down the corridor, gestured
to herself, and then tried to sign something else that Susan didn’t
understand—

General Granger shook her head, and once again, this time with slower,
more exaggerated movements, made the sign for Halt, I’ll look ahead.

Lavender, looking even more puzzled, pointed back the way they’d come,
and made a bouncing gesture with her other hand.

Now everyone else was looking even more confused than Lavender, and
Susan thought with some acerbity that evidently one hour of practice
done two days ago wasn’t enough to remember a new set of code signals.

Hermione pointed at Lavender, then at the floor beneath Lavender’s feet,
the expression on her face making it very clear that the intended
meaning was You. Stay. Here.

Lavender nodded.

Doom doom doom, went the words of the Chaos Legion’s marching song
through Susan’s mind, doom doom doom doom doom doom…

Hermione reached into her robes, and drew out a little rod with a mirror
on the end of it and an eyepiece. Very very softly indeed, the Ravenclaw
girl crept up to the wall, right next to where the passageway opened off
the corridor, and peeked just the tip of the eyepiece around the corner.

Then a little more.

Then a little more.

Then General Granger cautiously stuck her head around the side.

General Granger turned back to them, nodded, and made the hand gesture
for follow me.

Susan felt a little better as she crept forward. The part of the Plan
which called for them to arrive thirty minutes before the bully had,
apparently, actually worked. Maybe they were only slightly doomed…?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At ten-twenty-nine, almost on the dot, the bully showed up. If anyone
had been present to hear—though the corridor was apparently empty—they
would have heard his shoes clicking solidly through the main corridor,
entering the passageway, walking toward where the passageway turned its
first corner, turning that corner, and then stopping in some surprise
upon seeing that the passageway now terminated in a solid brick wall
where no wall had been before.

Then the bully shrugged and turned away, as he leaned back to watch the
main passage from just around the corner.

It was the castle Hogwarts, after all.

Behind the hastily Transfigured thin panels they’d assembled into the
outward appearance of a brick wall, the girls waited; not speaking, not
moving, hardly even breathing, but watching through the eyeholes they’d
left themselves.

As Susan’s gaze took in the bully, she could feel the tightening of her
chest all the way into her toes. The boy looked to be in his
seventh-year if not older, and his robes were trimmed in green instead
of the red they’d been hoping for, and he had muscles, and after staring
for a bit longer, Susan realized his stance had the balance that meant
that he duelled.

Then they all heard the sound of more feet approaching from the
corridor. The fourth-year Gryffindors and Slytherins had just been let
out of Potions class.

The footsteps pattered past, and diminished and faded, and the bully
didn’t do anything. For a moment Susan felt an instant of relief—

Then another, smaller group of footsteps approached.

The bully still didn’t do anything, as the footsteps went past.

That happened a few more times.

And then, as there approached the faintly audible sound of one last set
of footsteps, the seven girls heard the bully’s voice saying, clear and
cold and quiet, “Protego”.

Someone did gasp then, though fortunately very very quietly. If they
couldn’t get in even a single shot—

The bullies were learning already, Susan realized, she hadn’t expected
SPHEW to be able to do this very often before the bullies caught
on—but—Hermione had already defeated three bullies—and the school had
been buzzing with speculation about Salazar Slytherin’s ghost,
yesterday—

He’s expecting us!

Susan would have whispered to give up, to abort the plan, only there was
no way to convey a message to—

“Silencio,” said the bully in a soft, deliberate voice with his wand
pointed toward the corridor, the blue haze of his Shielding Charm
shimmering around him. “Accio victim.”

When the fourth-year boy came into their field of vision he was dangling
upside-down as if an invisible hand were holding him high by one leg,
his red-trimmed robes beginning to slide down his thighs to reveal the
trousers beneath. His mouth was opening and closing helplessly, no sound
coming out.

“I suppose you’re wondering what’s going on,” the seventh-year Slytherin
said in a quiet, cold voice. “Don’t worry. It’s so simple even a
Gryffindor could understand.”

With that, the Slytherin’s left hand formed a fist and drove hard into
the Gryffindor’s belly. The fourth-year boy’s body jerked around
frantically, but still no words left his mouth.

“You’re my victim,” said the older Slytherin. “I’m a bully. I’m going to
beat you up. And we’ll see if anyone stops me.”

It was at that moment that Susan realized it was a trap.

And in almost the same moment, there rang out the mighty and
high-pitched voice of a young girl, crying, “Stop, evildoer! Finite
Incantatem!”

Lavender, thought Susan, agonized. The Gryffindor girl had volunteered
to be a distraction, while the rest of them executed a flank attack from
where the bully wouldn’t expect it, that had been the plan, only now—

“In the name of Hogwarts,” cried Lavender’s voice, though they couldn’t
see her, “and in the name of heroines everywhere, I command you to let
go of that EEK!”

“Expelliarmus,” said the bully. “Stupefy. Accio stupid heroine.”

When Lavender floated into their vision, dangling by one foot and
unconscious, Susan blinked; the girl was dressed in a bright
crimson-and-gold skirt and blouse, instead of her usual Hogwarts robes.

The bully was also giving the girl’s upside-down body an odd look, and
then he pointed his wand at her and said “Finite Incantatem,” but the
clothes stayed the same.

Then the bully shrugged, and, still facing in the direction of Lavender
instead of the dangling fourth-year boy, drew back his fist—

“Lagann!” yelled five voices, and five green spirals blasted from five
wands aimed through five holes in the false wall, and an instant later
Hermione’s voice shouted “Stupefy!”

Five green spirals shattered ineffectually on blue haze, and Hermione’s
red bolt bounced off the haze and struck the fourth-year boy, who jerked
and then was still.

And the seventh-year bully turned around, smiling grimly, as the
first-year girls screamed and charged.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Susan’s eyes flew open and instantly she was rolling away from where
she’d lain on the floor, her lungs still on fire and her whole body
still aching from when she’d been hit, the battle had only moved forward
a few seconds from what she could see, Hannah’s body falling with her
arm still stretched out toward Susan, “Glisseo!” shouted Hermione but
the older boy just slashed his wand down leaving a trail of green glow
behind and Hermione’s Charm visibly disrupted into a shower of
blue-white sparks, then in almost the same motion the bully said
“Stupefy!” and Hermione was blown backward and Susan summoned up all the
magic she had left and shouted “Innervate!” at Hermione’s body even as
the bully turned toward her, the bully’s wand pointed in her direction
again and then Padma yelled “Prismatis!” just before the bully shouted
“Impedimenta!”, the rainbow sphere forming around the bully and the
seventh-year Slytherin staggered as his own hex was reflected back at
him, but an instant later the bully’s wand swept back to tap himself and
then Padma’s Prismatic Sphere shattered like a blown soap bubble as the
bully’s wand cut through it and “Innervate!” yelled Parvati at Hannah’s
body and Tracey and Lavender screamed at the same time, “Wingardium
Leviosa!”—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hannah Abbott held out her wand with a hand that trembled with
exhaustion, she didn’t have enough magic left for even one Innervate,
now.

The rest of the passageway was silent, scattered bodies lying across the
ground, Padma and Tracey and Lavender, Hermione and Parvati in a heap
against one wall, Susan standing in petrified rigor as her eyes tracked
it all helplessly, even the Gryffindor boy lying sprawled and motionless
(Hermione had woken him and he’d fought, but it hadn’t been enough).

It had been a very short battle.

The bully was still smiling, the only signs of his exertion a wavering
ripple in the blue glow surrounding him, and a few beads of sweat on his
forehead.

The bully raised his arm, wiped the sweat off his forehead, and stalked
toward her like a man-shaped living Lethifold.

Hannah turned and fled, spun and ran with screams kept bound in her
choking throat, sprinted past the fallen panelling of the fake brick
wall, ran down the passageway with all the speed she could muster,
weaving as much as she could—

Just before Hannah got to the turn in the passageway, the bully’s voice
from behind her said “Cluthe!” and she got awful cramps all through her
legs, she fell down and slid and hit her head against the wall, only she
didn’t even notice the pain of the smack as she started to scream with
the twisting muscles—

The bully was still stalking toward her, Hannah saw as she turned her
head; approaching her slowly, still wearing that dreadful smile.

And she rolled, despite the pain as her leg muscles knotted up around
themselves, she rolled around the corner of the passageway, and
screamed, “Go away!”

“I think not,” said the bully, his voice deep and scary like that of a
grown man, sounding very close at hand now.

The bully walked around the corner and Daphne Greengrass stabbed her
Most Ancient Blade directly into his groin.

There was a flash that lit up the whole corridor—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was with a subdued mien that seven girls left Madam Pomfrey’s office,
leaving one of their own behind in a hospital bed.

Hannah would be all right in about thirty-five minutes, the healer had
said; torn muscles were easy to mend.

Daphne had done all the talking, and according to her, Hannah had
suffered a mishap with a Road-Running Charm which had caused the leg
cramps. Madam Pomfrey had given them a sharp look but hadn’t argued,
even though that Charm was around six years above their level.

Madam Pomfrey had also given Daphne a potion to help with her state of
total magical exhaustion, and warned her not to cast any spells for the
next three hours. That, supposedly, was from Daphne using up too much
magic trying to Finite Hannah, rather than the Most Ancient Blade
drawing out all of her power to break the Protego.

The rest of them had decided not to say anything about the bruises under
their robes until they could get some older girls to cast Episkey. There
were limits to what Daphne could talk around.

The whole thing, Susan thought, had been too close, much too close. If
the bully had so much as looked around the corner—if he’d taken a moment
to recast his Shielding Charm—

“We should stop,” said Susan, as soon as the seven of them were out of
hearing range of the healer’s office. “We should stop doing this.”

For some reason, then, even though they were supposed to vote on this
sort of thing, everyone turned to look at General Granger.

The Sunshine General didn’t seem to see them looking at her, she just
strode on, gazing off straight ahead.

After a little while, Hermione Granger said, in a voice that sounded
thoughtful and a little sad, “Hannah said she didn’t want us to stop.
I’m not sure it’s right for us to… be less brave for her, than she is.”

All the other girls, except Susan, nodded at that.

“I think that’s got to be as bad as it gets,” said Parvati. “And we can
handle it. We’ve proved that now.”

Susan couldn’t think of anything to say to that. She didn’t think that
shrieking at the top of her lungs about blatant stupidity and doom would
be persuasive. And she couldn’t just leave the other girls, either.
Wasn’t it enough to be cursed with hard work, why did Hufflepuffs have
to be loyal on top of everything else?

“By the way, Lavender,” said Padma. “What in the name of Merlin’s
underpants were you wearing back there?”

“My hero outfit,” said the Gryffindor girl.

Daphne sounded weary, as she spoke without turning her own head from
where she was plodding through the hall. “It’s the costume of the
Soldier of Gryffindor from the play Chronicles of the Lunarian
Soldiers.”

“Did you Transfigure it?” said Parvati, looking puzzled. “But the bully
cast Finite on you—”

“Nope!” Lavender said. “It’s real! See, I just Transfigured my hero
outfit into a regular shirt and skirt beforehand, so all I had to do was
cast Finite on myself after I saw the bully. Do you want your own,
Parvati? I got mine made yesterday by Katarina and Joshua in sixth-year,
for twelve Sickles—”

“I think,” General Granger said in a careful voice, “that would make us
all look a little silly.”

“Well,” said Lavender, “we should vote on whether to—”

“I think,” General Granger said, “that no matter what anyone votes, I’m
not going to be caught dead wearing one of those costumes—”

Susan ignored the argument. She was trying to think up some sort of
clever strategy for being less doomed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The whole Great Hall went silent, even if only for a moment, as the
seven of them walked into lunch.

Then the applause started.

It was scattered, not the massive applause of everyone applauding at
once. A lot of it came from the Gryffindor table, less from Hufflepuff
and Ravenclaw, and none from Slytherin.

Daphne felt her face tightening. She’d hoped—well, maybe after they
found a Gryffindor bully to stop and a Slytherin to rescue, her fellow
Slytherins would realize—

She looked at the Hufflepuff table.

Neville Longbottom was applauding with his hands held high above his
head, although he wasn’t smiling. Maybe he’d heard about Hannah, or
maybe he was wondering why Hannah wasn’t there.

Then, not quite able to help herself, she glanced toward the Head Table.

Professor Sprout’s face was lined with concern. She and Professor
McGonagall were leaning their heads toward Headmaster Dumbledore, who
had a solemn look, and all their lips were moving quickly. Professor
Flitwick looked more resigned than anything else, and Quirrell, face
slack, was taking trembling stabs at his soup using a spoon gripped in a
fist.

Professor Snape was looking directly at—

Her?

Or—at Hermione Granger, standing next to her?

A small, thin smile crossed the Potions Master’s face, and he raised his
hands, brought them together once in a motion that was too slow to be a
real clap; and then the Potions Master turned back to his plate,
ignoring the conversations around him.

Daphne felt a little chill go down her spine, and she hastily turned to
walk toward the Slytherin table. Susan and Lavender and Parvati peeled
off from their group, heading toward the Hufflepuff and Gryffindor
tables on the other side of the Great Hall.

It happened as they were passing the part of the Slytherin table where
the Slytherin Quidditch team sat.

That was when Hermione stumbled suddenly, stumbled hard like she was
being yanked off her feet, and went sprawling into the gap between where
Marcus Flint and Lucian Bole sat, and there was a sad little splutching
sound as Hermione’s face ended up in Flint’s plate of steak and mashed
potatoes.

Everything seemed to happen too quickly then, or maybe it was just
Daphne herself who was thinking too slow, as Flint let out a bellow of
indignation and his hand yanked Hermione back and threw her into the
Ravenclaw table, and she bounced off a student’s back and collapsed onto
the ground—

The quiet spread out in ripples.

Hermione pushed herself up on her hands, though she didn’t get all the
way to her feet, Daphne could see that her whole body was shaking, and
that her face was still covered with mashed potatoes with scattered
pieces of steak.

For a long moment, nobody spoke, nobody moved. Like nobody in the whole
Great Hall could imagine, any more than Daphne could, what happened
next.

Then Flint’s powerful voice, the voice of the Slytherin Captain that
bellowed commands on the Quidditch pitch, said in a dangerous rumble,
“You ruined my food, girl.”

Another moment of frozen silence. Hermione’s head—Daphne could see it
trembling—turned to look at the Slytherin Quidditch Captain.

“Apologize to me,” said Flint.

Harry Potter started to push himself up from the Ravenclaw table, and
then stopped abruptly, halfway to his feet, as if he’d just thought of
something—

Then five other people stood up from the Ravenclaw table.

All of the Slytherin Quidditch team stood up, their wands coming into
their hands, and then students stood up at the Gryffindor table and at
the Hufflepuff table and without thinking Daphne turned to look at the
Head Table and she saw that the Headmaster was still sitting down,
watching, just watching, Dumbledore was just watching and he had one
hand out as though to restrain Professor McGonagall—in just one second
someone would shout a spell and then it would be too late, why wasn’t
the Headmaster doing anything—

And a voice said, “My apologies.”

Daphne turned back to look, her mouth gaping open in absolute shock.

“Scourgify,” said that smooth voice, and the mashed potatoes vanished
from Hermione’s face, revealing the Ravenclaw’s surprised expression as
Draco Malfoy approached her, sheathed his wand again, and then knelt to
one knee beside her and offered her a hand.

“Sorry about that, Miss Granger,” said Draco Malfoy’s polite voice. “I
guess someone thought they were being funny.”

Hermione took Draco’s hand, and Daphne suddenly realized what was about
to happen—

But Draco Malfoy didn’t raise Hermione halfway up and then drop her.

He just pulled her to her feet.

“Thanks,” said Hermione.

“You’re welcome,” Draco Malfoy said in a loud voice, not looking to
either side to see where all four Houses of Hogwarts were staring at him
in total shock. “Just remember, being cunning and ambitious doesn’t mean
you have to be like that.”

And then Draco Malfoy went back to his seat at the Slytherin bench and
sat down like he hadn’t—he hadn’t just—he’d just—

Hermione went to the nearest empty place at the Ravenclaw bench and sat
down.

A number of other people, rather slowly, sat down.

“Daphne?” said Tracey. “Are you all right?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco’s heart was hammering in his chest so hard he worried it might
explode right out of his chest in a shower of blood, like that curse
Amycus Carrow had used once on a puppy.

Draco’s face stayed completely controlled, because he knew (it’d been
drilled into him over and over) that if he showed the slightest sign of
the fear he was feeling, his Housemates would rip him apart like a swarm
of Acromantulas.

There’d been no time to check with Harry Potter, no time to plot, no
time to think, just the instant of realizing that the time to start
rescuing Slytherin’s reputation was right then.

From all sides of the long Slytherin table, angry faces stared at Draco.

But they were outnumbered by the faces that just looked puzzled.

“All right, I give up,” said a sixth-year boy that Draco didn’t
recognize, sitting across from him and two places to his right. “Why did
you do that, Malfoy?”

Although his mouth was very dry, Draco didn’t swallow. That would have
been a sign of fear. Instead he took a bite of carrots, which had the
most moisture of anything on his plate, and chewed and swallowed,
thinking as rapidly as he could.

“You know,” Draco said, making his voice as cutting as he could—as his
heart thumped even harder in his chest, as everyone around him stopped
talking to listen—“there’s probably some way to make Slytherin look even
worse than attacking eight first-year girls from all four Houses who are
working together to stop bullies, but I can’t think of how. This way we
get the benefit of what Greengrass is doing.”

The puzzled faces stayed puzzled.

“What?” said the sixth-year boy, and “Wait, what benefit?” said a
fifth-year girl sitting to his right.

“It makes Slytherin House look better,” said Draco.

The Slytherins around him were giving him quizzical gazes like he’d just
tried to explain algebra.

“Look better to who?” said the sixth-year boy.

“But you just helped a mudblood,” said the fifth-year girl. “How’s that
supposed to look good?”

Draco’s throat closed up. His brain was experiencing a hideous
malfunction during which it couldn’t think of anything to say except the
truth—

Then, “It’s probably some kind of tremendously clever scheme Malfoy’s
got going,” said a fifth-year boy. “You know, like in The Tragedy of
Light, where everything that looks like a setback is part of the plot.
And it ends with Granger’s head on a stick and nobody suspecting that it
was him.”

“That makes sense,” someone said from further down the table, and there
was a lot of nodding.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Do you know what the boss’s up to?” Vincent muttered in an undertone.

Gregory Goyle didn’t reply. In his mind he could hear very clearly his
master’s voice, saying, I can’t believe I believed every word of that,
the day the rumour had started about Salazar Slytherin showing Potter
and Granger where to find bullies.

“Mr Goyle?” whispered Vincent.

Gregory Goyle’s lips shaped the words, Oh no, but no sound came out.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione had left lunch early that day, for some reason she hadn’t felt
hungry. Those few seconds of horrible humiliation had kept burning
through her mind, over and over, the feeling of her face squishing into
the mashed potatoes and then being thrown through the air and then the
Slytherin’s boy’s voice saying ‘Apologize to me’…it might have been the
first time in her whole life that she’d felt like hating someone. The
boy who’d thrown her (Marcus Flint, they’d said his name was) and
whoever had cast the tripping Jinx on her in the first place… she’d felt
it, for one horrible instant she’d wanted to go tell Harry that if he
started getting creative on her behalf, she wouldn’t object.

She hadn’t been a minute out of the Great Hall before she’d heard the
sound of running feet behind, and turned to see Daphne racing toward
her.

And listened to what her Sunshine Soldier had to say…

“Don’t you understand?” Daphne’s voice was barely below a shriek. “Just
because someone’s nice to you doesn’t mean they’re your friend! He’s
Draco Malfoy! His father’s a Death Eater, all the parents of all his
friends are Death Eaters—Nott, Goyle, Crabbe, everyone around him, do
you get it? They all despise Muggle-borns, they want everyone like you
to die, they think you’re good for nothing but being a sacrifice in
horrible Dark rituals! Draco is the next Lord Malfoy, he’s been raised
from birth to hate you and he’s been raised from birth to lie!” Daphne’s
grey-green eyes stared fiercely at her, demanding assent and
understanding.

“He—” Hermione said falteringly. She remembered the rooftop, the awful
jolt as she started to fall, Draco Malfoy’s hand grabbing hers and
holding it so hard that she’d had bruises afterwards. She’d had to tell
him twice before he finally let her fall. “Maybe Draco Malfoy isn’t like
them—”

Daphne’s whisper was almost a scream. “If he doesn’t end up hurting you
ten times as hard as he just helped you, his life is over, do you
understand? I mean Lucius Malfoy would literally disinherit him! D’you
know what the chance is that he’s not up to something?”

“Tiny?” said Hermione in a small voice.

“Zero!” hissed Daphne. “I mean none! I mean less than zero! I mean the
chance is so small that you couldn’t find it with three Magnifying
Charms and a Point-Me spell and—and—and an ancient map and a centaur
prophet! Everyone in Slytherin knows he’s plotting to do something to
you and doesn’t want to be suspected, I heard someone say he was seen
pointing his wand at you just before you tripped—don’t you see? This is
all part of Malfoy’s plan!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco sat eating his steak with roasted cauliflower florets and
Ashwinder sauce (it wasn’t made from real Ashwinder eggs, it just tasted
like fire), trying not to laugh and trying not to cry.

He’d heard about plausible deniability, but hadn’t realized how much it
mattered until he found that Malfoys didn’t have any.

“You want to know my plot?” said Draco. “Here’s my plot. I’m not going
to do anything and then the next time people think I’m plotting
something, they won’t be sure.”

“Huh…” said the fifth-year boy. “I don’t think I believe you, that
doesn’t sound cunning enough to be really it—”

“That’s what he wants you to think,” said the fifth-year girl.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Albus,” Minerva said dangerously, “did you plan all this?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Well, if I did snap my fingers under the table, I wouldn’t just tell
you that—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Defence Professor’s quavering hand dropped his spoon into the soup
again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“What do you mean, set you up?” said Millicent. The two of them were
sitting cross-legged on Daphne’s bed, having come there straight from
the Great Hall after lunch. “With my Seer’s eyes that stare through Time
Itself, I saw you winning.”

Daphne stared at Millicent, her own merely mortal eyes rather narrowed
at the moment. “That boy was expecting us.”

“Well, yeah!” said Millicent. “Everyone knows you’re hunting bullies!”

“Hannah got hit by a really painful hex,” Daphne said. “She had to visit
a healer, Millicent! If we’re friends you should’ve warned me!”

“Look, Daphne, I told you—” The Slytherin girl paused, as if trying to
remember something, and then said, “I mean, I told you, what I See has
to come to pass. If I try to change it, if anyone tries to change it,
really terrible, awful, no good, extremely bad things will happen. And
then it’ll come to pass anyway. If I See you getting beaten up, I can’t
tell you that, because then you’d try to not go, and then—” Millicent
stopped.

“And then?” Daphne said skeptically. “I mean, what happens if we just
don’t go?”

“I don’t know!” said Millicent. “But it probably makes being eaten by
Lethifolds look like a tea party!”

“Look, even I know that’s not how prophecies work,” Daphne said, then
paused. “At least prophecies don’t work like that in plays…” Admittedly,
there were all sorts of tragedies where trying to avoid a prophecy made
it happen, or where, on the other hand, trying to go along with a
prophecy was the only reason why it happened. But you could make
prophecies happen your own way if you were clever enough; or someone who
loved you enough could take your place; or with enough effort it was
possible to break a prophecy outright… Then again, in plays the Seers
never remembered what they Saw, either…

Millicent must have seen Daphne’s hesitation, because the other girl
started looking a little more confident. “Well,” Millicent said sharply,
“this isn’t a play! Look, I’ll tell you if I See it being a hard battle
or an easy one. But that’s all I can do, you understand? And if I say
‘hard’ you can’t not show up! Or—or—” Millicent’s eyes rolled back in
her head, and she intoned hollowly, “Those who try to cheat their
destinies will come to sad and gloomy ends—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professor Sprout shook her head, her face looking tight.

“But—” said Susan. “But you helped Harry Potter that one time—”

“And it was made quite clear to me,” Professor Sprout said in a voice
that sounded like someone was using a Shrinking Charm to squeeze her
throat, “that it was Professor Snape’s job, and not mine, to keep order
in Slytherin House—Miss Bones, please, you don’t have to do this if—”

“Yes, I do have to,” Susan said unhappily. “I’m a Hufflepuff, we have to
be loyal.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“A mysterious parchment under your pillow?” said Harry Potter, looking
up from where he was sitting, in the Quieted nook where they were
studying. Then the boy’s green eyes narrowed. “It wasn’t from Santa
Claus, was it?”

Pause.

“Okay,” said Hermione. “I’m not going to ask, and you’re not going to
tell me, and we’re both going to pretend you never said that and I don’t
know anything about it—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Susan approached the table as soon as the older girl was alone, glancing
around the Hufflepuff common room to make sure nobody was watching (the
way Auntie had taught her to do it, so that it wouldn’t be obvious that
she was looking).

“Hey, Susie,” said the seventh-year Hufflepuff. “Do you already need
more—”

“Can I please talk to you privately for a bit?” Susan said.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jaime Astorga, seventh-year of Slytherin, and until recently considered
a promising upstart on the youth duelling circuit, stood ramrod straight
in Professor Snape’s office, with his teeth clenched tight and sweat
trickling down his spine.

“I distinctly recall,” said the Head of his House in a sardonic drawl,
“that I warned you, and a number of others this very morning, that there
were certain first-year girls who might prove annoying, if a fighter
were incautious and allowed himself to be taken by surprise.”

Professor Snape stalked in a slow circle around him.

“I—” said Jaime, as more sweat beaded on his forehead. He knew how
ridiculous it sounded, how much of a pathetic excuse. “Sir, they
shouldn’t have been able to—” One first-year-girl shouldn’t have been
able to break his Protego, no matter what sort of ancient Charm she
used—Greengrass must have had help—

But it was very clear that his Head of House wouldn’t believe that.

“Oh, I quite agree,” murmured Snape in a low tone, instinct with menace.
“They shouldn’t have. I begin to wonder if Mr Malfoy, whatever his
plotting, has a point, Astorga. It cannot be good for the repute of
Slytherin’s House if our fighters, rather than demonstrating their
strength, lose to little girls!” Snape’s voice had risen. “It is well
that you had the good taste to be defeated by a little girl who is a
fellow Slytherin of a Noble House, Astorga, or I would deduct points
from you myself!”

Jaime Astorga’s fists clenched at his side, but he couldn’t think of a
thing to say.

It was some time before Jaime Astorga was allowed to leave the presence
of his Head of House.

And afterwards, only the walls, the floor, and the ceiling saw Severus
Snape’s smile.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That evening Draco was visited by his father’s owl, Tanaxu, who wasn’t
green but only because there weren’t such things as green owls. The best
Father had been able to find was an owl of the purest silver feathers,
with great luminous green eyes, and a beak as sharp and cruel as any
snake’s fang. The parchment wrapped around Tanaxu’s leg was short and to
the point:

What are you doing, my son?

The parchment that Draco sent back was equally short, and it said,

I am trying to stop harm done to Slytherin’s reputation, father.

In as much time as it took for an owl to fly from Hogwarts to Malfoy
Manor and back again, the family owl bore another message to Draco, and
this one said only:

What are you really doing?

Draco stared at the parchment he’d unwrapped from the owl’s leg. His
hands trembled, as he held up the parchment to the light of his
fireplace. Five words, carved in black ink, shouldn’t have been scarier
than death.

There wasn’t very much time to think. Father knew exactly how long it
took for a message to go from Malfoy Manor to Hogwarts and back again;
he would know if Draco delayed to compose a careful lie.

But Draco still waited until his hand stopped trembling, before he wrote
his reply, the only answer he’d thought of that Father might accept.

I am preparing for the next war.

Draco wrapped that parchment around the owl’s leg and tied it, and then
sent Tanaxu winging out from his room, through the halls of Hogwarts,
into the night.

He waited, but no reply came.

73. Self Actualization, Part VIII:The Sacred and the Mundane

THE red jet of fire took Hannah full in the face, flipping her
end-over-heels and smacking her head straight into the stone wall, where
her pale face seemed to linger for an instant, framed by flying strands
of brown-golden hair, before she collapsed to the ground in a heap of
robes, as the third and final volley of blazing green spirals brought
down their foe’s Shield Charm.

The March days marched by, filled with lectures and study and homework,
breakfast and lunch and dinner.

The Gryffindor boy stared at the eight of them, tension in every line of
his body’s frame, his face working soundlessly; and then his hands
released their clenched grasp on the Slytherin boy’s lapels, and he
walked away without anyone saying a word. (Well, Lavender almost said a
word—her mouth was just opening in indignation, maybe because she hadn’t
had a chance to declaim her speech—but luckily Hermione spotted it and
made the gesture that meant shut up.)

Then there was sleeping, of course. You wouldn’t want to forget about
sleeping just because it seemed so normal.

“Innervate!” said the young voice of Susan Bones, and Hermione’s eyes
flew open and her lips drew in air with a gasp, her lungs feeling heavy
like there was a huge weight resting on her chest. Beside her, Hannah
was already sitting up, holding her head in her hands and grimacing.
Daphne had warned them that this would be a ‘hard’ fight, creating a
certain trepidation in Hermione, and indeed in all of them. Except maybe
Susan, who’d just shown up at the appointed meeting time, and walked
alongside them without speaking, and fought the seventh-year bully until
she was the last girl standing. Maybe the Gryffindor had been reluctant
to fight the last daughter of Bones, or maybe Susan had just been very
lucky; at any rate, when Hermione had tried to sit up again, she’d
realized that her chest had felt heavy because there was, in fact, a
rather large body sprawled on top of her.

And you wouldn’t want to forget about magic either, even if the actual
moment of casting a spell only formed a very small part of your day. It
was the whole point of Hogwarts, after all.

“Okay, how about if we all ride around on skateboards?” said Lavender.
“We could get places faster than walking. And we’d look really awesome
on skateboards, Muggle artifacts may not be as fast as broomsticks but
they look cooler—we should vote on it—”

As for the remaining fractions of time, you would fill that according to
your nature: gossip about upper-year romances, or books and study
sessions.

Hermione reached out a trembling hand to grasp her copy of Hogwarts: A
History from where it had fallen, the ever-comforting book only a pace
distant from where she herself had ended up on the floor, after the
red-robed upper-year girl had “bumped” her into a wall. And then the
older Gryffindor witch had walked away without a look back, only a
whispered “Salazar’s—” and a word that hurt her more than anything the
Slytherins said about mudbloods, ‘mudblood’ was just a strange wizarding
word but Hermione knew the word the Gryffindor had said. She couldn’t
get used to it, she just couldn’t get used to being hated. It still hurt
just as much every time it happened, and somehow it hurt even more
coming from the Gryffindors who were supposed to be the good ones.

Harry had divided up eight of his soldiers among the other armies, as
ordered; he’d voluntarily given up two Chaotic Lieutenants, sending Dean
Thomas to Dragon Army and then trading Seamus Finnigan to her for Blaise
Zabini, who Harry had said was being “underutilized” in Sunshine.
Lavender had elected to join most of SPHEW in Sunshine; Tracey had
decided to stay with Chaos.

“So you can work your charms on General Potter?” said Lavender, as
Hermione ignored both of them as hard as she could. “I’ve got to say,
Traces, I think our Sunshine General has him pretty well sewn up by
now—you’d have better luck convincing Hermione that the three of you
should have one of those, you know, arrangements—”

Nobody had figured out yet what Draco Malfoy was plotting.

“Certain?” said Harry Potter, sounding rather reluctant. “You know a
rationalist isn’t ever certain of anything, Hermione, not even that two
and two make four. I can’t actually read Malfoy’s mind, and if I could,
I couldn’t be certain he wasn’t a perfect Occlumens. All I can say is
that based on what I’ve seen of Malfoy, it’s a lot more plausible than
Daphne Greengrass thinks, that he actually is trying to show the
Slytherins a better way. We should… we really should try to go along
with that, Hermione.”

(Well, Harry seemed to think Draco Malfoy was a good guy. But then the
trouble was that Harry also tended to trust people like Professor
Quirrell.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said, “I’m worried about the hatred
Slytherin House seems to be developing for Hermione Granger.”

They were sitting in the Defence Professor’s office, Harry sitting far
back from the teacher’s desk (and the sense of pending disaster was
still noticeable, even then), the empty bookcase still framing Professor
Quirrell’s balding head. The cup balanced on Harry’s thigh was filled
with Professor Quirrell’s obscure, probably-expensive Chinese tea, and
it said something about the way Harry had been thinking lately that he’d
needed to make a conscious decision to drink it.

“And this concerns me for what reason?” said Professor Quirrell, sipping
his tea.

“Yes, well,” said Harry, “I’m just going to ignore that—oh, stop that,
Professor Quirrell, you’ve been plotting to restore Slytherin House’s
reputation since at least the first Friday of this year.”

There might have been a tiny crack of a smile, at the edges of those
thin pale lips; and then again, there might not have been. “I think
Slytherin’s House will do well enough in the end, Mr Potter, regardless
of the fate of one girl. But I do agree that the present outlook is not
favourable for your little friend. The bullies of two Houses, many of
them with powerful and well-connected families, see Miss Granger as a
threat to their reputation and a shame to their pride. As powerful a
motive as that is to hurt her, it pales compared to the raw envy of the
Gryffindors, who see an outsider gaining the laurels of heroism which
they have dreamed of since childhood.” Now the smile on Professor
Quirrell’s lips was definite, though slight. “And then there are those
of Slytherin House who hear that Salazar Slytherin’s ghost has abandoned
them to favour a mudblood. I wonder if you can even conceive, Mr Potter,
of how such as they would react? Those who do not believe it would
cheerfully kill Miss Granger for the insult. And as for those Slytherins
who wonder deep down, in some quiet place within themselves, if it might
perhaps be true… their inner panic is something scarcely to be
contemplated.” Professor Quirrell sipped his tea equably. “When you are
more experienced, Mr Potter, you will see such consequences in advance
of your plotting. As it stands, you are being ill-served by your wilful
ignorance of all human nature you deem unpleasant.”

Harry sipped his own tea.

“Ah…” said Harry. “Professor Quirrell… help?”

“I already offered Miss Granger my help,” said Professor Quirrell, “as
soon as I foresaw what would develop. My student told me, in polite
terms, to stay out of her business. Nor would she tell you anything
different, I expect. As I have little to truly gain or lose in this
matter, I hardly intend to press the point.” The Defence Professor
shrugged, his teacup held steady in the exactly-right polite grip, so
that the surface of the liquid did not even ripple as Professor Quirrell
leaned back within his chair. “Do not worry too much, Mr Potter.
Emotions run high around Miss Granger, but she is in less danger than
you might imagine. When you are older, you will learn that the first and
foremost thing which any ordinary person does is nothing.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The envelope which the Slytherin System had delivered to Daphne at lunch
was unsigned, as always; the parchment within named a time and a place
and said, simply, “Hard.”

That wasn’t what had concerned Daphne. What had concerned Daphne was
that Millicent didn’t seem to be looking in her or Tracey’s direction at
lunch that day. She’d just stared straight ahead at her plate and eaten.
Millicent had looked up just once that Daphne saw, in the direction of
the Hufflepuff table, and then looked quickly back down again; though
Daphne was too far away to see the expression on Millicent’s face, since
Millicent had sat down far away from her and Tracey.

Daphne had thought about that during lunch, with a sick feeling in her
stomach unlike anything she’d felt before, and which had caused her to
stop eating halfway through her first plate.

What I See has to come to pass… it probably makes being eaten by
Lethifolds look like a tea party…

It wasn’t any conscious decision that Daphne made, nothing like
Slytherins were supposed to do, no weighing of the benefits to herself.

Instead—

Daphne told Hannah and Susan and everyone, that her informant had warned
her that the next bully was going to target Hufflepuffs in particular,
and that the bully planned to risk the teachers’ wrath in order to
really hurt either Hannah or Susan, like seriously, and the two of them
needed to stay out of this one.

Hannah had agreed to stay out of it.

Susan had—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“What are you doing here?” yelled General Granger, though it was sort of
a yell and a whisper at the same time.

Susan’s round face didn’t change, like the Hufflepuff girl had suddenly
developed the sort of experienced blankness that Daphne’s own Mother
used. “Am I here, really?” Susan said calmly.

“You said you wouldn’t come!”

“Did I say that?” said Susan. She flipped her wand casually in one hand,
leaning against the stone wall of the corridor where they were waiting,
her reddish-brown hair somehow arranging itself in perfect order against
the yellow trim of her witch’s robes. “I wonder why. Maybe I didn’t want
Hannah to get any strange ideas. Hufflepuff loyalty, you know.”

“If you don’t leave,” said the Sunshine General, “I’ll call a mission
abort, and we’ll all go back to our study halls, Miss Bones!”

“Hey!” said Lavender. “We didn’t vote on—”

“That’s fine by me,” said Susan, who was keeping a steady gaze on the
other end of the corridor where it merged into the tiled hallway where
they’d been told to expect the bully. “I’ll just stay here myself,
then.”

“Why—” said Daphne. Her heart was in her throat. If I try to change it,
if anyone tries to change it, really terrible, awful, no good, extremely
bad things will happen. And then it’ll come to pass anyway… “Why are you
doing this?”

“It’s not like me,” said Susan. “I know. But—” Susan shrugged. “People
don’t always behave like themselves, you know.”

They pleaded.

They begged.

Susan didn’t even say anything any more, she just kept watching,
waiting.

Daphne was nearly crying, she kept wondering if she’d caused this, if
trying to change Fate was making this happen worse—

“Daphne,” said Hermione, her voice sounding much higher than usual, “go
get a teacher. Run.”

Daphne spun on her heels and started to pelt down the other direction of
the stony corridor, and then she realized, and she turned back to where
all the other girls except Susan were watching her go, and Daphne,
feeling like she was about to throw up, said, “I can’t…”

“What?” said Hermione.

“I think it gets worse every time you try to fight it,” said Daphne.
That was how it worked in plays, sometimes.

Hermione stared at her, and then Hermione said, “Padma.”

The other Ravenclaw girl just tore right out of there without arguing.
Daphne watched her go, knowing that Padma wasn’t as good a runner as
her, and now wondering if maybe that would turn out to be the only
reason why help would come too late…

“Bullies are here,” Susan said laconically. “Huh, they’ve got a
hostage.”

They all whirled, and looked, and saw—

Three older bullies, Daphne’s eyes recognized Reese Belka who was a top
lieutenant in one of the seventh-year armies, and Randolph Lee who was
number two in the Hogwarts duelling club, and worst of all, Robert
Jugson III, in his sixth year, whose father was almost certainly a Death
Eater.

All three were surrounded by Shielding Charms, blue hazes that glowed
beneath the surface in ribbons of other colour and showed occasional
faceting above, multi-layered shields like the three of them thought
they were fighting serious duellists and had expended energy
accordingly.

And behind them, bound and supported by glowing ropes, was Hannah
Abbott. Her eyes were wide and panicked and her mouth was moving, though
they couldn’t hear anything through the Quietus they’d put up earlier.

Then Jugson made an offhand gesture with his wand, and the glowing ropes
flung Hannah at them, there was a small pop as Hannah’s body blew
through the Quieting barrier, Susan’s wand was instantly pointing at
Hannah and Susan’s voice muttered “Wingardium Leviosa”—

“Run!” screamed Hannah, as she was gently lowered to the ground.

But the corridor behind them and in front of them was now blocked with a
glowing grey field, a barrier spell that Daphne didn’t recognize.

“Do I need to explain what this is about?” Lee said with false
joviality. The seventh-year duellist was sporting a smile that didn’t
reach his eyes. “Well, just in case, you little inconveniences, and that
includes you Miss Greengrass, you’ve been quite enough trouble and
you’ve told quite enough lies. We brought your little friend just to
make sure everyone knew we got all of you—though I suppose the other
Ravenclaw girl is hiding around a corner or clinging to the ceiling
somewhere? Well, no matter. This is your—”

“Enough talk,” said Robert Jugson III, “time for pain,” and raised his
wand. “Cluthe!”

Simultaneously Susan pointed her wand and said “Prismatis!” and a small
rainbow sphere formed in mid-air almost instantly, the miniature barrier
so condensed and bright that it stayed intact even as Jugson’s hex hit
it and bounced off toward Belka, whose wand flashed to swat away the
dark bolt; and then a moment later the many-coloured blaze was gone.

Daphne’s eyes went wide for a moment; she’d never thought of using a
Prismatic Sphere like that—

“Jugsy, honey?” said Belka. Her lips widened in a vicious smile. “I
thought we discussed this. First we beat them, then we play.”

“P-please,” said Hermione Granger in a faltering voice, “let them go—I,
I, I promise I’ll—”

“Oh, really,” said Lee in an annoyed tone. “Are you about to offer to
turn yourself over if we let the others go? We’ve got all of you, now.”

Jugson smiled, then. “It could be funny,” said the sixth-year junior
Death Eater, softly and with menace. “How about if you lick my shoes,
mudblood, and one of your friends can go? Pick whichever one you like
best, leave the others to get hurt.”

“Nope,” said the young voice of Susan Bones, “not going to happen,” and
with a blindingly fast motion the Hufflepuff girl leapt leftward just as
a red stun bolt erupted from Belka’s wand, Daphne could hardly see the
movement as Susan seemed to hit the corridor wall and then bounce off it
like she was a rubber ball and her legs smashed into Jugson’s face, it
didn’t go through the shield but the sixth-year went sprawling backward
with the impact and Susan followed him downward and her foot stamped
down on the boy’s wand arm, again being repelled by the shield,
“Elmekia!” shouted Lee and Parvati shouted “Prismatis!” and the rainbow
wall formed but the fiery blue blast passed right through it like it
wasn’t even there, the bolt missed Susan by inches, there was a
whirlwind of motion that Daphne couldn’t follow during which Belka had
her feet knocked out from under her, but the older witch just rolled
back to a stand and then—

Daphne saw it coming, and her lips started to mouth “Pris—” but it was
already too late.

Three blasts of brilliance slammed into Susan at once, she had her wand
raised as though she could counter them and there was a white flash as
the hexes struck the magical wood, but then Susan’s legs convulsed and
sent her flying into a corridor wall. Her head hit with a strange
cracking sound, and then Susan fell down and lay motionless with her
head at an odd-seeming angle, her wand still clutched in one
outstretched hand.

There was a moment of frozen silence.

Parvati scrambled over to where Susan lay, pressed a thumb over the
pulse point on Susan’s wrist, and then—then slowly, tremblingly, Parvati
rose to her feet, her eyes huge—

“Vitalis revelio,” said Lee just as Parvati opened her mouth, and
Susan’s body was surrounded by a warm red glow. Now the seventh-year boy
really was grinning. “Probably just a broken collarbone, I’d say. Nice
try, though.”

“Merlin, they are tricky,” said Jugson.

“You had me going for a second there, dearies.” The seventh-year girl
wasn’t smiling at all.

“Tonare!” screamed Daphne, raising her wand above her head and focusing
harder than she ever had in her life. “Ravum Calvaria! Lucis—”

She didn’t even see the hex that got her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hermione felt the jolt of Innervation bringing her awake, and out of
some intuitive stratagem she didn’t roll to her feet right away; it had
been a completely hopeless battle and she didn’t know what she could do
but some instinct told her that leaping to her feet wasn’t it.

Just a crack, Hermione opened her eyes, and the thin rays of light that
entered them showed Parvati backing away from all three bullies, the
last girl standing that Hermione could see.

And her eyes also showed Tracey fallen not far away from her, and
Hermione’s wand was still in her hand; and so, desperately hoping the
Slytherin girl would show more sense than she usually did, Hermione made
the wand movements as subtly as she could, and hardly moving her lips,
whispered, “Innervate.”

Hermione felt the spell working, but Tracey didn’t move. Hermione hoped
it was because Tracey was being cunning, and waiting to…

What could they do?

Hermione didn’t know, and the panic that had waited through the moments
of fighting was starting to eat her up inside now that she was still,
now that she was trying to think, now that she could see that it was all
absolutely hopeless.

That was when Hermione heard a thud, and though it was out of her field
of vision now, she knew that Parvati had fallen.

A moment of silence came, and passed.

“Now what?” said the voice of the scary-soft boy.

“Now we wake up the mudblood,” said the precise voice of the
scary-formal boy, “and find out who’s really behind them, not Salazar
Slytherin’s ghost.”

“No, dears,” said the voice of the scary-sweet girl, “first we bind them
all very securely—”

And then there was a sound like lightning and thunder and Hermione’s
eyes widened in shock before she could stop herself, and in her widened
field of vision she saw the scary-soft boy convulsing as yellow arcs of
energy crawled over him like giant blazing worms. His wand flew out of
his hand as he collapsed to the ground, twitching, and then a moment
later he lay still.

“Is everyone else asleep now?” said a voice. “Good.”

Susan Bones rose from the floor near where the scary-soft boy had stood,
neck still oddly bent. Then she rolled her head around her shoulders, a
casual loose motion, and her head was straight again.

The round-faced first-year girl stood facing the remaining two bullies
with one hand cocked on her hip.

Grinning.

And surrounded by faceted blue haze.

“Polyjuice!” spat the bully-girl.

“Polyfluis Reverso!” roared the remaining boy bully.

Something like the form of a mirrored scarf spat out of his wand—

Passed without resistance through the haze surrounding Susan—

For an instant, she glowed in a strange mirror-colour, like a reflection
of herself—

And then the glow faded.

The young girl still stood there, hand on her hip.

“Wrong,” said Susan.

“And this is the truth,” said Susan. “In case nobody ever told you—”

In her small hand a wand rose up, blurred by the blue haze surrounding
it.

“You don’t mess with the ‘Puffs,” said Susan, and with a grey flash so
bright it hurt Hermione’s half-closed eyes, the real battle started.

It went on for a while.

Some of the ceiling got melted.

The girl-bully tried to cry a truce, that they would leave and take
Jugson with them, and Susan roared out the syllables of a curse Hermione
recognized as Abi-Dalzim’s Horrid Wilting which was illegal in seven
countries.

Eventually the girl-bully lay unconscious and comatose on the ground,
and the last boy bully had fled leaving his companions’ bodies behind,
and Susan was leaned over against one wall, covered in sweat and her
scorched robes soaked through with wet spots, gasping for breath, and
clutching at her right shoulder using her left hand.

After a while Susan straightened up, and turned to look back at where
her fellow witches were sleeping on the floor.

Well, they should’ve been sleeping on the floor.

Lavender was already sitting up with eyes as wide as watermelons.

“That…” said Lavender.

“Was…” said Tracey.

“What?” said Hermione.

“I mean, what?” said Parvati.

“Cool!” said Lavender.

“Oh, hell,” said Susan Bones. Her face had already looked a little pale
beneath the sweat, and now it was getting paler, looking almost
frighteningly white. “Ah… could I convince you that you hallucinated all
that?”

There was a rapid exchange of glances. Hermione looked at Parvati,
Parvati looked at Lavender, Lavender briefly locked gazes with Tracey.

The four of them looked back at Susan and shook their heads.

“Oh, hell,” said Susan again. “Look I’ll be back in a few minutes but
I’ve really got to go now please don’t say anything bye!”

And Susan ran out into the hallway, moving surprisingly fast, before
anyone could say another word.

“No, seriously, what?” said Parvati.

“Innervate,” said Hermione, pointing her wand at Daphne, whose body she
hadn’t been able to see before; and Lavender pointed her wand at
Hannah’s body and said the same.

Hannah’s eyes opened and she tried frantically to roll to her feet, but
collapsed to the ground halfway through.

“It’s okay, Hannah!” said Lavender. “We won.”

“We what?” said Hannah from her little heap on the floor.

Daphne hadn’t stirred, but Hermione could see her chest rising and
falling, and the breathing rhythm looked normal enough. “I think she’s
okay,” said Hermione, “but—” She took a moment to swallow, her mouth was
still dry. This had all got way, way, way out of hand. “I think we ought
to take Daphne to Madam Pomfrey’s…”

“Sure, sure, just give me a second here and I’ll probably be fine,” said
Parvati.

“Excuse me,” Hannah said in a tone that was polite, but firm. “How did
we win? And why does the ceiling look all melty?”

There was a pause.

“Susan did it,” said Tracey.

“Yeah,” said Parvati, voice only slightly shaky as she stood up and
started to brush off her red-trimmed robes, “it turns out that Susan
Bones is the Heir of Hufflepuff and she’s opened up the long-lost
entrance to Helga Hufflepuff’s Chamber of Hard Work and Practice.”

“Huh?” said Hannah, who was feeling over herself as if to make sure all
her body parts were still there. “I thought that was just something
Professor Sprout says to teach us an Important Moral Lesson—Susan is?”

Slowly, Hermione was beginning to feel a bit more together. It hadn’t
really been more than thirty seconds of extreme terror, at least not the
parts she’d been conscious for. “Actually,” Hermione said carefully, as
her mind started to work again, “I’m pretty sure that is just something
Professor Sprout says, it wasn’t in Hogwarts: A History or anywhere else
I’ve read—”

“She’s a double witch!” shouted Tracey, her voice so high it cracked.
“She is! She’s one of them! She’s been this whole time!”

“What?” yelled Parvati, twisting around to look at Tracey. “That is the
looniest thing—”

“Of course!” said Lavender, now all the way on her feet and starting to
bounce up and down with excitement. “I should’ve realized!”

“Susan’s a what?” said Hermione.

“A double witch!” said Tracey.

“You see,” said Lavender, speaking very rapidly, “There’ve always been
stories, about these children who are born as super magicians who can
cast spells no-one else can, and there’s a whole secret school hidden
inside Hogwarts with classes that only they can see and go to—”

“Those are just stories!” yelled Parvati. “That’s not how real life
works! I mean, sure, I read those books too—”

“Just a minute, please,” said Hermione. Maybe her mind was feeling a
little slow after all. “You mean even though you already get to go to a
magical school and everything, you still want to go to a double magical
school?”

Lavender looked at her, puzzled. “What?” said Lavender. “Who wouldn’t
want to have super extra magical powers? It would be like this whole
amazing destiny and everything! It’d mean you were special!”

Hannah nodded to that, looking up from where she’d crawled to Daphne’s
side and was checking the girl for broken bones. “I wish I was a double
witch,” Hannah said, and then, sounding a little sadder, “though I don’t
believe there is any such thing, really… what did you see Susan do,
exactly? I mean, are you sure you weren’t just seeing things after
getting stunned?”

Hermione truly, truly couldn’t find any words at this point.

“Oh, no,” said Tracey. The Slytherin girl spun around to look at the
entrance to the corridor, her robes fluttering around her. “Oh no! We’ve
got to get out of here! We’ve got to get away before Susan comes back
with someone who can Super-Memory-Charm us!”

“Susan wouldn’t do that!” said Parvati. “I mean, if there even was—”

“WHAT’S GOING ON HERE?” roared a high-pitched squeaky voice, as
Professor Flitwick stormed into the partially melted corridor like a
small, dangerously compressed package of pure academic fury, an
ashen-faced Padma gasping along behind him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“What happened?” Susan blurted to the girl who looked exactly like her,
except for the scorched robes damp with sweat.

“Ooh, great question!” said the other Susan Bones as she rapidly skinned
off what was left of her borrowed clothes. A moment later the girl began
to Metamorphose back into her more accustomed form of Nymphadora Tonks.
“Sorry but I couldn’t think of anything myself so you’ve got about three
minutes to decide on an answer to that—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As Daphne Greengrass observed afterwards with some acidity, the flaw in
Hermione’s cunning plan to make sure that House points were taken evenly
from all four Houses if they got caught, was that it didn’t work on
detentions.

They’d all agreed to keep their mouths shut about Susan’s mysterious
powers—even Tracey, after Susan threatened to have her
Super-Memory-Charmed if she didn’t promise. Unfortunately, they
discovered at dinner time that someone had forgotten to tell the bullies
about their agreement, and also that Susan Bones had sacrificed her soul
to dreadful forbidden powers which now inhabited the hulk of her body
and that was why they’d all got detention.

“Hermione?” Harry Potter said to her from beside her at the dinner
table, his voice very tentative. “Please don’t take offense, and I’ll
understand if you say it’s none of my business, but I think all this is
starting to spin out of control.”

Hermione went on mashing the slice of chocolate cake on her plate into a
seamless mush of cake and icing. “Yes,” Hermione said, her voice might
have been a little acerbic, “that was what I said to Professor Flitwick
while I was apologizing to him, that I knew things had got out of hand,
and he yelled: Really, Miss Granger? Do you think? in a squeak so loud
that my ears caught on fire. I mean my ears actually caught on fire.
Professor Flitwick had to put them out again.”

Harry had put his hand to his forehead. “Excuse me,” Harry said. His
face was perfectly straight. “Sometimes I still have a little trouble
getting used to that sort of thing. Hey, Hermione, remember when we were
young and naive and we still thought the world was a relatively
understandable place?”

Hermione put her fork down and looked at him for a moment. “Do you
sometimes wish you were a Muggle, Harry?”

“Huh?” said Harry. “Well, of course not! I mean, even if I was a Muggle,
I’d probably have tried some day to take over the worrrrlllll—” as
Hermione gave him a look and the boy hastily swallowed the word and
said, “I mean optimize of course, you know that’s what I really mean,
Hermione! My point is, it’s not like my goals would change one way or
another. But with magic it’s going to be a lot easier to get things done
than if I had to do stuff using only the Muggle capability set. If you
think about it logically, that’s why I’m going to Hogwarts instead of
just ignoring all this and studying for a career in nanotechnology.”

Hermione, having finished hand-crafting her Chocolate Cake Sauce, began
to dip her carrots in it and eat them.

“Why do you ask?” said Harry. “Do you wish you were back in the Muggle
world?”

“Not exactly,” Hermione said, as she crunched into both the carrot and
the chocolate. “I was just, well, feeling strange about having wanted to
be a witch… Did you want to be a wizard when you were little?”

“Of course,” Harry said promptly. “I also wanted psychic powers and
super-strength and adamantium-reinforced bones and my own flying castle
and sometimes I felt sad that I might have to settle for just being a
famous scientist and an astronaut.”

Hermione nodded. “You know,” she said softly, “I think the witches and
wizards who grow up here don’t really appreciate magic properly…”

“Well, of course they don’t,” Harry said, “that’s what gives us our
advantage. Isn’t that obvious? I mean seriously, that was bloody obvious
to me within five minutes of walking into Diagon Alley.” There was a
puzzled look on the boy’s face, like he couldn’t understand why she was
paying attention to something so obvious.

74. Self Actualization, Part IX:Escalation of Conflicts

HARRY walked forward a step, then another step, until a sense of unease
began to pervade him, a disquiet in his nerves.

He said nothing, lifted no hand; the pervading sense of unease would say
it for him.

From behind the closed door of the office came a whisper, carrying
through the door as though no door were present.

“It is not my office hours,” said that cold whisper, “nor yet the time
of our meeting. I take ten Quirrell points from you, and be glad it is
not more.”

Harry stayed calm. Going through Azkaban had recalibrated his scale of
emotional disturbances; and losing a House point, which had formerly
rated five out of ten, now lay somewhere around zero point three.
Harry’s voice was likewise level, as he said, “You made a testable
prediction and it was falsified, Professor. I only wished to note that.”

As Harry turned to go, he heard the door opening behind him, and he
swung back around in some surprise.

Professor Quirrell was leaning back in his chair, his head lolling back
against its rest, as a parchment floated before him. Both the Defence
Professor’s hands rested limply on the desk, as though nerveless. He
might have been a corpse, excepting that the ice-blue eyes still moved,
back and forth, back and forth.

The parchment vanished, and was replaced by another so quickly it was
like the material had only flickered.

Then the lips moved as well. “And from this,” whispered the lips, “you
infer what, Mr Potter?”

Harry was shaken by the sight, but his voice stayed even as he said,
“That ordinary people do not always do nothing, and that Hermione
Granger is in more danger from Slytherin House than you thought.”

The lips curved, ever so barely. “So you think I have failed in my grasp
of human nature. But that is hardly the only possibility, boy. Do you
see the other?”

Harry furrowed his brows as he stared at the Defence Professor.

“I tire of this,” the Defence Professor whispered. “You will stand there
until you see it for yourself, or else leave.” As though Harry had
stopped existing, the Defence Professor’s eyes looked back to the
parchment, once more scanning back and forth.

It was six parchments later that Harry saw it, and said out loud, “You
think your prediction failed because there was some other factor at work
which was not in your model. Some reason why Slytherin House hates
Hermione more than you realized. Like when the orbital calculations for
Uranus were wrong, and the problem wasn’t in Newton’s Laws, it was that
they didn’t know about Neptune—”

The parchment vanished, and was not replaced. The head rose from its
lolling position then, facing Harry more directly, and the voice which
issued forth was quiet, but not toneless. “I think, boy,” Professor
Quirrell said softly, but in something approaching his normal voice,
“that if all Slytherin House hated her so much, I would have seen it.
And yet three formidable fighters of that House did something rather
than nothing, at risk and at cost to themselves. What force could have
moved them, or willed their motion?” The icy blue glitter of the Defence
Professor’s eyes met Harry’s own gaze. “Some hand possessed of influence
within Slytherin, perhaps. Then how would that hand have benefited
itself by harm done to the girl and her followers?”

“Um…” said Harry. “It would have to be someone threatened by Hermione
somehow, or someone who would get the credit if she was hurt? I don’t
know anyone who fits that profile, but then I don’t know much about
anyone in Slytherin outside first-year.” The thought was also coming to
Harry that deducing a hidden mastermind from a single mildly-unexpected
attack seemed like insufficient evidence to support the prior
improbability of the theory; but then it was Professor Quirrell who was
doing the deducing…

The Defence Professor was just looking at Harry, eyelids slightly
lowered as though in impatience.

“And yes,” said Harry, “I am sure that Draco Malfoy isn’t behind it.”

A hiss of outward air like a sigh. “He is the son of Lucius Malfoy,
trained to the most exacting standards. Whatever you have seen of him,
even in what seem to be unguarded moments when his mask slips and you
trust that you have seen the truth beneath, even that may all be part of
the face he chooses to show you.”

Only if Draco successfully cast the Patronus Charm as part of keeping up
the act. But Harry didn’t say that, of course; instead he just grinned
slightly, and said, “So either you’ve really never read Draco’s mind, or
that’s just what you want me to think.”

There was a pause. One of the hands turned over, beckoned a finger.

Harry stepped into the room. The door closed behind him.

“That was not something you should have said aloud in human speech,”
said Professor Quirrell’s soft voice. “Legilimency, on Malfoy’s heir?
Did Lucius Malfoy learn of it, he would have me assassinated outright.”

“He would try,” Harry said. It should have won a crinkle of Professor
Quirrell’s eyes, but the Defence Professor’s face was unmoving. “But
sorry.”

When the Defence Professor spoke again, his voice had once more become a
cold whisper. “I suppose I could, and pity the assassin.” His head fell
back against the chair, lolled to one side, the eyes no longer meeting
Harry’s. “But these small games hardly hold my interest as they stand.
Add Legilimency, and it ceases to be a game at all.”

Harry hardly knew what to say. He’d seen Professor Quirrell in an angry
mood once or twice before, but this seemed emptier, and Harry didn’t
know what to say to it. What’s bothering you, Professor Quirrell? he
could not ask.

“What does hold your interest?” Harry said a few moments later, after
he’d worked it out as a safer-seeming strategy for redirecting Professor
Quirrell’s attention to positive things. Citing experimental results
about keeping a gratitude journal as a strategy for improving life
happiness didn’t seem like it would be taken well.

“I will tell you what does not hold my interest,” said that icy whisper.
“Grading Ministry-mandated essays does not hold my interest, Mr Potter.
But I have undertaken the position of Defence Professor at Hogwarts, and
I will see it through to its end.” Another parchment appeared in front
of Professor Quirrell’s head, and his eyes began to scan it. “Reese
Belka held a high position in my armies before her folly. I will offer
her the chance to stay rather than being expelled, if she tells me
exactly of the forces which moved her. And I shall make clear to her
what will happen if she lies. I do permit myself to read faces.”

The Defence Professor’s finger pointed past Harry, toward the door.

“But whether you were wrong about human nature,” Harry said, “or whether
there’s some extra force at work in Slytherin House—either way, Hermione
Granger is in more danger than you predicted. Last time it was three
strong fighters, so what happens after—”

“She wishes not my help, nor yours,” said a soft cold voice. “I no
longer find your concerns so entertaining as I once did, Mr Potter. Go.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Somehow, even though they were all equals and she definitely wasn’t in
charge, it was always Hermione who ended up speaking first in this sort
of situation.

The four tables of Hogwarts, the four Houses having breakfast, were
glancing over at where they, the eight members of SPHEW, had gathered
off to one side.

Professor Flitwick was also staring sternly at all of them from the Head
Table. Hermione wasn’t looking there, but she could feel Professor
Flitwick’s gaze on the back of her neck. Literally feel it. It was
really creepy.

“Why’d you tell Tracey you wanted to talk to us, Mr Potter?” said
Hermione, her tone crisp.

“Professor Quirrell expelled Reese Belka from her army last night,”
Harry Potter said. “And from all her other after-school Defence
activities. Do any of you see the significance of that? Miss Greengrass?
Padma?”

Harry’s eyes swept over them, as Hermione exchanged a puzzled glance
with Padma, and Daphne shook her head.

“Well,” Harry said quietly, “I wouldn’t actually expect you to. But what
it means is that you’re in danger, and I don’t know how much danger.”
The boy squared his shoulders, looking straight into Hermione’s eyes. “I
wasn’t going to say this, but… I just wanted to offer to put you under
whatever protection I could give. Make it clear to everyone that anyone
who messes with you, is messing with the Boy-Who-Lived.”

“Harry!” said Hermione sharply. “You know I don’t want—”

“Some of them are my friends too, Hermione.” Harry didn’t take his eyes
from hers. “And it’s their decision, not yours. Padma? You told me that
I owed you no debt for what I did, and that’s the sort of thing a friend
would say.”

Hermione broke her gaze from Harry, to look at where Padma was shaking
her head.

“Lavender?” Harry said. “You fought well in my army, and I’ll fight for
you if you wish it.”

“Thank you, General!” Lavender said crisply. “I mean Mr Potter. No,
though. I’m a heroine and a Gryffindor, and I can fight for myself.”

There was a pause.

“Parvati?” Harry said. “Susan? Hannah? Daphne? I don’t know any of you
so well, but it’s something I would offer anyone who came to ask it of
me, I think.”

One by one, the other four girls shook their heads.

Hermione realized what was coming, then, but she didn’t see a single
thing she could do about it.

“And my loyal soldier, Chaotic Tracey?” said Harry Potter.

“Really?” gasped Tracey, oblivious to the stabbing glares that Hermione
and every other girl were directing at her. Tracey’s hands flew artfully
to her cheeks, though she didn’t actually manage to blush, not that
Hermione could see; and her brown eyes were, if not shining, at least
opened very wide. “You’d do that? For me? I mean—I mean, of course,
absolutely, General Chaos—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And so it was on that very morning that Harry Potter went over to the
Gryffindor table, and then the Slytherin table, and told both Houses
that anyone who hurt Tracey Davis, regardless of what she was doing at
the time, would, quote, learn the true meaning of Chaos, unquote.

It was with considerable restraint that Draco Malfoy managed to prevent
himself from slamming his head repeatedly into his plate of toast.

They weren’t exactly scientists, the bullies of Hogwarts.

But even they, Draco knew, were going to want to test it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Society for the Promotion of Heroic Equality for Witches hadn’t
announced it, it didn’t seem like it would do any good to announce it.
But they had all quietly decided (or, in the case of Lavender, been
shouted into it by all seven other girls) to take a break from fighting
bullies for a while, at least until their Heads of House weren’t looking
at them quite so sharply any more, and older students had stopped
bumping Hermione into walls.

Daphne had told Millicent that they were taking a break.

And so it was with some puzzlement, a few days later, that Daphne looked
at the parchment delivered to her at lunch, drawn in a hand so shaky it
was almost unreadable, saying:

2 this afternoon at the top of the stairs going up from the library
really important everyone has to be there—Millicent

Daphne looked around, but she couldn’t see Millicent anywhere in the
Great Hall.

“A message from your informant?” said Hermione, when Daphne told her.
“That’s odd— I didn’t—”

“You didn’t what?” said Daphne, after the Ravenclaw girl had stopped in
mid-sentence.

The Sunshine General shook her head and said, “Listen, Daphne, I think
we need to know where these messages come from before we keep following
them. Look at what happened last time, how could anyone have known where
those three bullies would be, unless they were in on it?”

“I can’t say—” Daphne said. “I mean, I can’t say anything, but I know
where the messages come from, and I know how anyone can know.”

Hermione gave Daphne a look that, for a moment, made the Ravenclaw girl
look scarily like Professor McGonagall.

“Uh huh,” said Hermione. “And do you know how Susan suddenly turned into
Supergirl?”

Daphne shook her head, and said, “No, but I think it might be really
important that if we get a message saying we should be somewhere,
everyone has to be there.” Daphne hadn’t seen what had happened with
Susan, after Daphne had tried to avert the prophecy by keeping Susan
away. But she’d been told about it afterwards, and now Daphne was afraid
that…

She might have possibly…

Might possibly have Broken Something…

“Uh huh,” said Hermione, who was doing the McGonagall Stare again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Nobody seemed to know where it had started, who had started it. If you’d
tried tracing it afterwards, tracked it back word by word and mutter by
mutter, you probably would have found it all going in a huge circle.

Peregrine Derrick was tapped on his shoulder as he left Potions that
morning.

Jaime Astorga heard a whisper in his ear at lunch.

Robert Jugson III discovered a tiny folded note under his plate.

Carl Sloper overheard two older Gryffindors whispering about it, and
they gave him significant glances as they walked past.

Nobody seemed to know where the word began, or who had first spoken it,
but it named the place, and it named the time, and it said that the
colour would be white.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Every single one of you had better be absolutely clear on this,” said
Susan Bones. The Hufflepuff girl, or whatever strange power had
possessed her, wasn’t even pretending to act normal any more. The
round-faced girl was striding through the halls with a firm, confident
gait. “If we get there and it’s just one bully, that’s fine, you can
fight them the regular way. My mysterious superpowers won’t activate if
there are no innocents in danger. But if five seventh-year bullies jump
out of a cupboard, you know what you do? That’s right, you run away and
let me fight them. Finding a teacher is optional, the important thing is
that you run away as soon as I create an opening. In a fight like that
you are liabilities. You are civilian targets I have to worry about
protecting. So you will get away as fast as possible and you will not
try to do anything heroic or so help me, the hour you get out of your
healer’s beds I will personally show up and kick your arses right back
in. Are we all clear on that?”

“Yes,” squeaked most of the girls, though in Hannah’s case it came out,
“Yes, Lady Susan!”

“Don’t call me that,” snapped Susan. “And I don’t think I heard you,
Miss Brown! I’m warning you, I have friends who write plays and if you
do anything dumb, posterity will remember you as Lavender, the Amazing
Stupid Hostage.”

(Hermione was beginning to worry about just how many other Hogwarts
students besides Harry had mysterious dark sides, and whether she was
likely to develop one if she kept hanging out with them.)

“Alright, Captain Bones,” said Lavender in an unusually respectful tone,
as they turned another corner along the shortest way to the library,
passing through a rather large corridor studded with six sets of double
doors, three sets on either side. “Can I ask if there’s any way for me
to become a double witch?”

“Sign up for Auror preparation in your sixth year,” said Susan. “It’s
the next best thing. Oh, and if a famous Auror offers to oversee your
summer internship, just ignore anyone who warns you that he’s a terrible
influence or that you’re almost certainly going to die.”

Lavender was nodding rapidly. “Got it, got it.”

(Padma, who hadn’t actually been there last time, was giving Susan very
skeptical looks.)

Then Susan suddenly stopped in place and her wand snapped up and she
said, “Protego Maximus!”

A jolt of adrenaline went through Hermione, she was instantly drawing
her wand and spinning around—

But she couldn’t see anything wrong, through the greater blue haze now
surrounding them all.

The other girls, who had likewise pulled into formation, were also
looking puzzled.

“Sorry!” said Susan. “Sorry, girls. Give me a moment to check this place
out. Thinking of a certain person has just reminded me that this hall
we’re in right now, with all those doors, would be an excellent place
for an ambush.”

There was a moment of silence.

“Now,” said a harsh male voice, blurred into unidentifiability by a
buzzing undertone.

All six sets of double doors slammed open.

White robes filed silently forward, all-concealing white robes without
marks of House affiliation and white cloth hiding the faces beneath the
hoods. They marched out, and marched out, crowding the great corridor in
numbers too high to count easily. Less than fifty robes, probably.
Certainly more than thirty. All of them already surrounded by blue haze.

Susan said some Extremely Bad Words, so awful that at almost any other
time, Hermione would have noticed.

“That message!” Daphne cried in sudden horror. “It wasn’t from—”

“Millicent Bulstrode?” said the voice and its buzzing undertone. “No, it
wasn’t. You see, Miss Greengrass, if the same girl sends off a Slytherin
message every day you fight a bully, pretty soon someone else will
notice. We’ll have a talk with her after we’re done with you.”

“Miss Susan,” said Hannah in a voice just starting to quaver, “can you
be super enough to—”

Wands rose in many hands. There came a series of blinding flashes of
green light, a massive volley of shield breakers, at the end of which
there was no more protective blue dome surrounding them, and Susan had
fallen to her knees, clutching her head.

Barriers of solid blackness had sprung into being at both ends of the
corridor. Behind the double doors that Hermione could see into, there
were only unused classrooms, very dead ends.

“No,” said the male voice with that buzz overlaid, “she can’t. In case
you haven’t noticed, you’ve made quite a lot of people very angry with
you and we have no intention of losing this time. All right everyone,
prepare to fire.”

The wands around the perimeter aimed again, low enough that their
enemies wouldn’t hit each other if they missed.

And then another male voice, with a similar buzz accompanying it,
suddenly said “Hominem Revelio!”

An instant later there was another massive volley of shield breakers and
hexes, fired on reflex at the suddenly revealed figure, shattering the
shields which had almost immediately begun to form around it—

And then, as that same figure fell to the ground, a stunned silence.

“Professor Snape?” said the second voice. “He’s the one who’s been
interfering?”

It was the Potions Master of Hogwarts who now lay unconscious on the
stone floor, the dirt-spotted robes stirring for a final moment before
they settled in place, his fallen hand outstretched toward where his
wand was slowly rolling away.

“No,” said the first male voice, now sounding a bit more uncertain. Then
it rallied, “No, that can’t possibly be it. He heard us passing the
word, of course, and came along to make sure nobody screwed it up again.
We’ll wake him up afterwards and apologize and he’ll Memory-Charm the
children so they don’t remember, he’s a Professor so he can do that.
Anyway, we should make sure we’re really alone now. Veritas Oculum!”

Fully two dozen different Charms must have been spoken, then, but no
more invisible people showed up. One of them in particular made
Hermione’s heart sink; she recognized it as the Charm which had been
listed alongside the description of the True Cloak of Invisibility,
which would not reveal the Cloak, but would tell you whether it or
certain other artifacts were nearby.

“Girls?” whispered Susan. She was slowly pushing herself to her feet,
though Hermione could see her limbs swaying and quivering. “Girls, I’m
sorry for what I said before. If you’ve got anything clever and heroic
to try, you might as well try it.”

“Oh, yeah,” Tracey Davis said then, her voice trembling. “I almost
forgot.” The Slytherin girl raised her voice, and spoke.

“Hey, all of you!” yelled Tracey in a high-pitched shaky shout. “Hey,
are you planning to hurt me too?”

“Yes, actually,” said the buzzing voice of the leader. “We are.”

“I’m under Harry Potter’s protection, you know! Anyone who tries to hurt
me will learn the true meaning of Chaos! So are you going to let me go?”
It should have sounded defiant. It came out sounding terrified.

There was a pause. Some of the hoods of the robes turned to face each
other, then turned back to face the girls.

“Hm…” said the buzzing male voice. “Hm… no.”

Tracey Davis put her wand away into her robes.

Slowly, deliberately, she raised her right hand high in the air, and
pressed her thumb and forefingers together.

“Go ahead,” said that voice.

Tracey Davis snapped her fingers.

There was a long, awful pause.

Nothing happened.

“Yes, well,” said the voice—

Tracey said, her voice sounding even higher and shakier, “Acathla,
mundatus sum.” Her hand, stretching up still further, snapped its
fingers a second time.

A nameless chill went down Hermione’s spine then, a frisson of fear and
disorientation like she’d just felt the floor tilt beneath her,
threatening to spill her into some darkness lying beneath.

“What’s she—” began a buzzing female voice.

Tracey’s face looked pale, twisted with fear, but her lips moved,
spilled forth sound in a high chant, “Mabra, brahoring, mabra…”

A chill wind seemed to spring up within the confines of the corridor, a
dark breath that caressed their faces and touched their hands with ice.

“Fire at her on my count!” shouted the leading voice. “One, two, three!”
and maybe-forty voices roared spells, creating a huge concentric array
of fiery bolts that lit the wide corridor brighter than the Sun—

—for the short moment before the bolts struck and vanished upon a
dark-red octagon that appeared in the air around the girls, and then
disappeared a moment later.

Hermione saw it, she saw it but she still couldn’t imagine it; she
couldn’t imagine a Shielding Charm that powerful, a spell that would
withstand an army.

And Tracey’s voice went on chanting, her voice sounding louder and more
confident, and her face screwed up like she was trying to remember
something very exactly.

“Shuffle, duffle, muzzle, muff.
Fista, wista, mista-cuff.”

Now all those present could feel it, heroines and bullies alike, the
sensation of some dark will pressing down on them, a tingling in the air
as something built and built and built. All the blue hazes around the
white robes, all the shielding spells, had died out without any visible
hex touching them. There were more flashes of light as more desperate
spells were fired, but they fizzled out in mid-air like candle-flames
touching water.

The black barriers at the two ends of the corridor had dissipated like
smoke beneath the growing pressure, but their evaporation revealed the
exits sealed, blocked by tiled slats of dark metal that looked stained
as though with blood; and as Tracey chanted “Lemarchand, Lament,
Lemarchand,” a dreadful blue light began to shine out from beneath the
metal slats and between them; and the six sets of double doors slammed
shut all at once, as panicked white-robed bullies began to pound on them
and howl.

Then Tracey’s hand slashed to her left, and she cried “Khornath!”, then
her hand pointed below her and “Slaaneth!”, above her “Nurgolth!”, and
then, to her right, “TZINTCHI!”

Tracey paused, took a deep breath; and Hermione found her voice and
cried, “Stop! Tracey, stop!”

But there was a strange wild smile on Tracey’s face. She raised her hand
still higher, and snapped her fingers a third time; and when she spoke
again, beneath her high girlish voice there was an undertone as though
some lower chorus were chanting along with her.

“Darkness beyond darkness, deeper than pitchest black.
Buried beneath the flow of time…
From darkness to darkness, your voice echoes in the emptiness,
Unknown to death, nor known to life.”

“What are you doing?” shrieked Parvati, and the Gryffindor girl
stretched out a hand as though to pull down the Slytherin, who was now
starting to float upward into the air; and both Daphne and Susan grabbed
Parvati’s arm at the same time and Daphne cried out, “Don’t, we don’t
know what will happen if the ritual is interrupted!”

“WELL WHAT HAPPENS IF IT GETS COMPLETED?” screamed Hermione, as close as
she’d ever come to total brain meltdown.

Susan’s face was white as chalk, and she whispered, “I’m sorry,
Mad-Eye…”

And Tracey spoke on, her body floating higher and higher off the floor,
her black hair whipping wildly around her in the chill winds.

“You who know the gate, who are the gate, the key and guardian of the
gate:
I bid you open the way for him, and manifest his power before me!”

The corridor was plunged then into utter darkness and silence, so that
only Tracey could be seen and heard, like there was nothing left in the
universe except her and the light illuminating her from some nameless
source.

The shining girl raised her hand one final time, and with dreadful
gravity, pressed her thumb and forefinger together.

And within the darkness Hermione looked at Tracey’s face and saw that
the Slytherin girl’s eyes were now, to the exact shade, the green of
Harry Potter’s.

“Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres!
Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres!
HARRY JAMES POTTER-EVANS-VERRES!”

There was a snap like thunder, and then—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had chosen to assume a rather relaxed posture, as he sat in a low
chair before the mighty desk of the Headmaster of Hogwarts: one leg
cocked over his knee, and his arms sprawling casually to either side.
Harry was doing his best to disregard the noise from the surrounding
devices, although the one directly behind him that sounded like an owl
hooting desperately as it was put through a wood-chipper was pretty
difficult to ignore.

“Harry,” the old wizard said from behind the desk, the aged voice level
as the blue eyes stared out at him from beneath the shining half-moon
spectacles. Headmaster Dumbledore had garbed himself in robes of
midnight purple; not true formal black, but dark enough to come close
indeed to deadly seriousness, as the wizarding world counted the meaning
of fashions. “Were you… responsible for this?”

“I cannot deny that my influence was at work,” Harry said.

The old wizard took off his glasses, leaned forward to stare at Harry
directly, blue eyes to green. “I will ask you one question,” the
Headmaster said in a quiet voice. “Do you think that what you did today
was—appropriate?”

“They were bullies and they came to that hallway with the direct intent
of hurting Hermione Granger and seven other first-year children,” Harry
said levelly. “If I am not too young for moral judgement, then neither
are they. No, Headmaster, they didn’t deserve to die. But they did
deserve to be stripped naked and glued to the ceiling.”

The old wizard put his glasses back on. For the first time that Harry
had seen of him, the Headmaster seemed to be at a loss for words. “As
Merlin himself is my witness,” said Dumbledore, “I haven’t the faintest
notion of how I ought to react to this.”

“That’s pretty much the effect I was aiming for,” said Harry. He felt
like he ought to be whistling a merry tune, but unfortunately he had
never learned how to whistle reliably.

“I need not ask you who is directly responsible,” said the Headmaster.
“Only three wizards within Hogwarts might be powerful enough. I myself
did not do it. Severus has assured me he was not involved. And the
third…” The Headmaster shook his head in some dismay. “You loaned the
Defence Professor your Cloak, Harry. I do not think that was wise. For
now that he has escaped detection by simple Charms, he surely knows that
it is a Deathly Hallow—if, indeed, he did not know from its first touch
upon his flesh.”

“Professor Quirrell had already deduced my possession of an invisibility
cloak,” Harry said. “And knowing him, he has probably guessed that it is
a Deathly Hallow. But in this case, Headmaster, it so happens that
Professor Quirrell was under one of those face-concealing white robes.”

There was another pause.

“How very cunning,” said the Headmaster. He leaned back in his throne
and sighed. “I have spoken to the Defence Professor. Just before you,
indeed. I did not quite know what to say. I told him that this was not
the approved Hogwarts policy for dealing with infractions of hallway
discipline, and that I did not feel it was appropriate for a Hogwarts
professor to do what he had done.”

“And what did Professor Quirrell say to that?” said Harry, who was not
impressed with Hogwarts’s current policies for enforcing hallway
discipline.

The Headmaster wore a look of resignation. “He said: Fire me.”

Somehow Harry managed not to cheer out loud.

The Headmaster frowned. “But why did he do it, Harry?”

“Because Professor Quirrell doesn’t like school bullies and I asked very
politely,” said Harry. And he was feeling bored and I thought this might
cheer him up. “Either that or it’s part of some incredibly deep plot.”

The Headmaster rose up from behind the desk, began to pace back and
forth before the hat stand that held the Sorting Hat and the red
slippers. “Harry, do you not feel that all of this has got a bit…”

“Awesome?” offered Harry.

“Utterly and completely out of hand would say it better,” said
Dumbledore. “I am not sure there has ever been a time in the whole
history of this school when things have become so, so… I don’t have a
word for this, Harry, because things have never been like this before,
and so no-one has ever needed to invent a word for it.”

Harry would have tried to invent words to express how deeply
complimented he felt, if he hadn’t been snorting with laughter too hard
to speak.

The Headmaster was regarding him with increasing graveness. “Harry, do
you understand at all why I find these events concerning?”

“Honestly?” said Harry. “No, not really. I mean, of course Professor
McGonagall would object to anything that breaks up the dull monotony of
the Hogwarts school experience. But then Professor McGonagall wouldn’t
set a chicken on fire.”

The frown lines deepened on Dumbledore’s wrinkled face. “That, Harry, is
not what disturbs me,” the Headmaster said quietly. “There was a full
battle fought in these halls!”

“Headmaster,” Harry said, trying to keep his voice carefully respectful,
“Professor Quirrell and I did not choose for that battle to happen. The
bullies did that. We just decided to have the Light side win. I know
there are times where the boundaries of morality are uncertain, but in
this case the line separating the villains and the heroines was twenty
metres tall and drawn in white fire. Our intervention may have been
weird, but it certainly wasn’t wrong—”

Dumbledore had gone back to his desk, sat down in his padded throne with
a dull thump, and was now covering his face with both his hands.

“Am I missing something here?” Harry said. “I thought you’d be secretly
on our side, Headmaster. It was the Gryffindor thing to do. The Weasley
twins would approve, Fawkes would approve—” Harry glanced at the golden
perch, but it was empty; either the phœnix had more important things to
do, or the Headmaster hadn’t invited him to today’s meeting.

“That,” said the Headmaster in an old and tired and somewhat muffled
voice, “is precisely the problem, Harry. There is a reason why
courageous young heroes are not put in charge of schools.”

“All right,” Harry said. He couldn’t quite keep the skepticism out of
his voice. “What am I missing this time?”

The old wizard lifted his head, his face now solemn, and calmer.
“Listen, Harry,” said Dumbledore, “hear me well; for all who wield power
must learn this in time. Some things in this world are, indeed, truly
simple. If you pick up a stone and drop it again, the earth will be no
heavier for it, the stars will not move from their paths. I say this,
Harry, so that you know I am not pretending to be wise, when I tell you
that even as some things are simple, others are complex. There are
greater wizardries which leave marks upon the world, and marks upon
those who wield them, as a simple Charm would not. Those wizardries
demand hesitation, consideration of consequence, a moment to weigh the
meaning of their marks. And yet the most intricate magics known to me
are simpler than the simplest soul. People, Harry, people are always
marked, by what they do and by what is done to them. Do you, then,
understand how to say, ‘Here is the line between hero and villain!’ is
not enough to say that what you did was right?”

“Headmaster,” Harry said evenly, “this is not a decision I made at
random. No, I don’t know what exact effect this will have on every
single one of the bullies present. But if I always waited for perfect
information before I acted, I would never do anything. When it comes to
the future psychological development of, say, Peregrine Derrick, beating
up eight first-year girls probably wouldn’t have been good for him. And
it wasn’t enough to just stop them quietly and quickly, since then they
would just try again later; they had to see that there was a protective
power worth fearing.” Harry’s voice stayed level. “But of course, since
I am a good guy, I didn’t want to permanently injure them or even cause
them any pain; and yet the penalty had to be enough to weigh on the
minds of anyone thinking about trying it again. So, after weighing the
expected outcomes as best I could with my boundedly rational intellect,
I thought it would be wisest to strip the bullies naked and glue them to
the ceiling.”

The young hero stared directly into the old wizard’s gaze, unflinching
green eyes locked with the blue behind the spectacles.

And since I wasn’t there and didn’t do anything personally, there’s no
lawful way to punish me under the Hogwarts school rules; the only one
who acted was Professor Quirrell, and he’s fireproof. And just breaking
the rules to get at me wouldn’t be a wise thing to do to the hero you’re
grooming to fight Lord Voldemort… This time Harry actually had tried to
think through all the ramifications in advance, before he’d made the
suggestion to Professor Quirrell; and for once the Defence Professor
hadn’t called him a fool, just slowly smiled and then begun to laugh.

“I understand your intentions, Harry,” the old wizard said. “You think
you have taught the bullies of Hogwarts a lesson. But if Peregrine
Derrick could learn that lesson, he would not be Peregrine Derrick. He
will only be provoked more by what you do—it is not fair, it is not
right, but that is the way it is.” The old wizard closed his eyes, as
though in brief pain, and then opened them again. “Harry, the most
painful truth any hero must learn is that the right cannot, should not,
must not win every battle. All of this began when Miss Granger fought
three older enemies and won. If she had been content with this, the
echoes of her deed would have died away in time. Yet instead she banded
together with her classmates and raised her wand in open challenge to
Peregrine Derrick and all his kind; and his kind cannot but raise their
own wands in answer. So Jaime Astorga went hunting her, and in the
natural course he would have beaten her; it would have been a sad day,
but it would have ended there. There is not enough magic in eight
first-year witches all together to defeat such a foe. But you could not
accept that, Harry, could not let Miss Granger learn her own lessons;
and so you sent the Defence Professor to watch over them invisibly, and
pierce Astorga’s shields when Daphne Greengrass struck at him—”

What? thought Harry.

The old wizard went on speaking. “Each time you intervened, Harry, it
escalated matters further and yet further. Soon Miss Granger was facing
Robert Jugson himself, the son of a Death Eater, with two strong allies
at his side. Painful indeed it would have been for her, if Miss Granger
had lost that battle. And yet again by your will and Quirinus’s hand,
this time shown more openly, she won.”

Harry was still struggling with the notion of the Defence Professor
watching invisibly over SPHEW, guarding the heroines from harm.

“And so,” the old wizard finished, “that is how we came to today, Harry,
to forty-four students attacking eight first-year witches. A full battle
in these halls! I know it was not your intent, but you must accept some
measure of responsibility. Such things did not happen before you came to
this school, not through all my decades in Hogwarts; neither when I was
a student nor when I was a Professor.”

“Thank you very much,” Harry said evenly. “Though I think Professor
Quirrell deserves more credit than me.”

The blue eyes widened. “Harry…”

“Those bullies were attacking victims long before this year,” Harry
said. Despite his best efforts, his voice was starting to rise. “But
nobody seems to have taught the students that they’re allowed to fight
back. I know it’s much harder to ignore a two-sided fight than some
helpless victims getting hexed or almost pushed out of windows, but it’s
not exactly worse, is it? I wish I’d read more of Godric Gryffindor’s
writings so I could quote him, there’s got to be something in there
about this. Open battle may be louder than the victims suffering in
silence, it may be harder to pretend that nothing is happening, but the
final result is better—”

“No, it is not,” Dumbledore said. “It is not, Harry. To always fight the
darkness, to never let evil pass unchallenged—that is not heroism, but
simple pride. Even Godric Gryffindor did not think that every war was
worth fighting, though he went his whole life from one battle to
another.” The old wizard’s voice went quieter. “In truth, Harry, the
words you speak—they are not evil. No, not evil, and yet they have
frightened me. You are one who might some day wield great power, over
wizardry, over your fellow wizards. And if, come that day, you still
think that evil must never pass unchallenged—” Now a note of real worry
had entered the Headmaster’s voice. “The world has grown more fragile
since the age when Hogwarts was raised; I fear it cannot bear the fury
of another Godric Gryffindor. And he was slower to his wrath than you.”
The old wizard shook his head. “You are too ready to fight, Harry. Much
too ready to fight, and Hogwarts itself is becoming a more violent place
around you.”

“Well,” Harry said carefully, after weighing his words. “I don’t know if
it will help to say this, but I think you’re getting the wrong
impression of what I’m all about. I don’t like real fighting either.
It’s scary, and violent, and somebody might get hurt. But I didn’t fight
today, Headmaster.”

The Headmaster frowned. “You sent the Defence Professor in your place—”

“Professor Quirrell didn’t do any fighting either,” Harry said calmly.
“There wasn’t anyone there strong enough to fight him. What happened
today wasn’t fighting, it was winning.”

It was a while then before the old wizard spoke. “That may be as it may
be,” the Headmaster said, “but all these conflicts must end. I can hear
the strain in the air, and with each of these clashes, it rises. All
this must end, decisively and soon; you must not stand in the way of its
ending.”

The old wizard gestured toward the great oaken door of his office, and
Harry departed through it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was with some surprise that Harry stepped out from between the huge
grey gargoyles which had made way for him, and saw that Quirinus
Quirrell was still slumped against the stone of the corridor wall, a
thick thread of spittle drooling from his slack mouth onto his
Professorial robes, in just the same position he’d occupied when Harry
had first gone up into the Headmaster’s office.

Harry waited, but the slumped man didn’t rise up; and after long awkward
seconds, Harry began to walk down the corridor again.

“Mr Potter?” came a soft call, after Harry had turned two corners; a
quiet voice carrying unnaturally through the halls.

When Harry had returned he found Professor Quirrell still slumped
against the wall, but the pale eyes now watched him with keen
intelligence.

I’m sorry to have tired you out—

It was something that Harry couldn’t say. He’d noticed the correlation
between the effort Professor Quirrell expended and the time he had to
spend ‘resting’. But Harry had reasoned that if the effort was too
painful or detrimental, surely Professor Quirrell would just say no. Now
Harry was wondering if that reasoning had actually been correct, and if
not, how to apologize…

The Defence Professor spoke in a quiet voice, the rest of the body
unmoving. “How went your meeting with the Headmaster, Mr Potter?”

“I’m not sure,” Harry said. “Not the way I predicted. He seems to
believe the Light should lose a lot more often than I’d consider wise.
Plus I’m not sure he understands the difference between trying to fight
and trying to win. It explains a lot, actually…” Harry hadn’t read much
about the Wizarding War, but he’d read enough to know that the good guys
probably had acquired a pretty accurate picture of who most of the worst
Death Eaters were, and hadn’t just owled them all hand grenades over the
course of five minutes.

A soft, soft laugh from the pale lips. “Dumbledore does not comprehend
the enjoyment of winning, just as he does not comprehend the enjoyment
of the game. Tell me, Mr Potter. Did you suggest this little plan with
the deliberate intention of relieving my tedium?”

“That was among my many motives,” Harry said, because some instinct had
warned that he couldn’t just say Yes.

“Do you know,” the Defence Professor said in soft reflective tones,
“there are those who have tried to soften my darker moods, and those who
have indeed participated in brightening my day, but you are the first
person ever to succeed in doing it deliberately?” The Defence Professor
seemed to straighten up from the wall with a peculiar motion which might
have included magic as well as muscle; and the Defence Professor began
to walk away without a look back in Harry’s direction. Only a single
small gesture of one finger indicated that Harry was to follow.

“I particularly enjoyed that chant you composed for Miss Davis,” said
Professor Quirrell after they had walked a short distance. “Though you
might have been wiser to consult me in advance, before giving it to her
to memorize.” One hand bestirred itself to within the Defence
Professor’s robes and drew forth a wand, which traced a small gesture in
the air, after which all the faraway sounds of the castle Hogwarts fell
silent. “Tell me honestly, Mr Potter, have you somehow acquired a
familiarity with the theory of Dark rituals? That is not the same as
confessing an intent to cast them; many wizards know the principles.”

“No…” Harry said slowly. He had decided some time ago against trying to
sneak into the Restricted Section of the Hogwarts library, for much the
same reason he’d decided a year earlier not to look up how to make
explosives out of common household materials. Harry prided himself on at
least having more sense than people thought he did.

“Oh?” said Professor Quirrell. The man was walking more normally now,
and the lips curved about in a peculiar smile. “Why, perhaps you possess
a natural talent for the field, then.”

“Yes, well,” Harry said wearily. “I suppose Dr Seuss also has a natural
talent for Dark rituals, because the part about shuffle, duffle, muzzle,
muff came from a children’s book called Bartholomew and the Oobleck—”

“No, not that part,” said Professor Quirrell. His voice grew a little
stronger, took on some of its normal lecturing tone. “An ordinary Charm,
Mr Potter, can be cast merely by speaking certain words, making precise
motions of the wand, expending some of your own strength. Even powerful
spells may be invoked in this way, if the magic is efficient as well as
efficacious. But with the greatest of magics, speech alone does not
suffice to give them structure. You must perform specific actions, make
significant choices. Nor is the temporary expenditure of your own
strength sufficient to set them in motion; a ritual requires permanent
sacrifice. The power of such a greater spell, compared to ordinary
Charms, can be like day compared to night. But many rituals—indeed,
most—happen to demand at least one sacrifice which might inspire
squeamishness. And so the entire field of ritual magic, containing all
the furthest and most interesting reaches of wizardry, is widely
regarded as Dark. With a few exceptions carved out by tradition, of
course.” Professor Quirrell’s voice took on a sardonic tinge. “The
Unbreakable Vow is too useful to certain wealthy Houses to be outlawed
entirely—even though to bind a man’s will through all his days is indeed
a dread and terrible act, more fearsome than many lesser rituals that
wizards shun. A cynic might conclude that which rituals are prohibited
is not so much a matter of morality, as habit. But I digress…” Professor
Quirrell made a brief coughing sound, a clearing of his throat. “The
Unbreakable Vow requires three participants and three sacrifices. The
one who receives the Unbreakable Vow must be one who could have come to
trust the Vower, but chooses instead to demand the Vow from them, and
they sacrifice that possibility of trust. The one who makes the Vow must
be someone who could have chosen to do what the Vow demands of them, and
they sacrifice that capacity for choice. And the third wizard, the
binder, permanently sacrifices a small portion of their own magic, to
sustain the Vow forever.”

“Ah,” Harry said. “I’d wondered why that spell wasn’t used all over the
place, every time two people have difficulty trusting each other…
although… why don’t wizards on their deathbeds charge money to bind
Unbreakable Vows, and use that to leave an inheritance for their
children—”

“Because they are stupid,” said Professor Quirrell. “There are hundreds
of useful rituals which could be performed if men had so much sense; I
could name twenty without stopping to draw breath. But in any case,
Mr Potter, the thing about such rituals—whether or not you choose to
term them Dark—is that they are shaped to be magically efficacious, not
to appear impressive when performed. I suppose there is a certain
tendency for the more powerful rituals to require more dreadful
sacrifices. Even so, the most terrible ritual known to me demands only a
rope which has hanged a man and a sword which has slain a woman; and
that for a ritual which promised to summon Death itself—though what is
truly meant by that I do not know and do not care to discover, since it
was also said that the counter-spell to dismiss Death had been lost. The
most dread chant I have encountered does not sound even a hundredth as
fearsome as the chant you composed for Miss Davis. Those among the
bullies who had a passing familiarity with Dark rituals—and I am certain
that there were some—must have been terrified beyond the capacity of
words to describe. If there existed a true ritual which appeared that
impressive, Mr Potter, it would melt the Earth.”

“Um,” said Harry.

Professor Quirrell’s lips twisted further. “Ah, but the truly amusing
thing was this. You see, Mr Potter, the chant of every ritual names that
which is to be sacrificed, and that which is to be gained. The chant
which you gave to Miss Davis spoke, first, of a darkness beyond
darkness, buried beneath the flow of time, which knows the gate, and is
the gate. And the second thing spoken of, Mr Potter, was the
manifestation of your own presence. And always, in each element of the
ritual, first is named that which is sacrificed, and then is said the
use commanded of it.”

“I… see,” said Harry, as he trod through the halls of Hogwarts after
Professor Quirrell, following him toward the Defence Professor’s office.
“So my chant, the way I wrote it, implies that the Outer God,
Yog-Sothoth—”

“Was permanently sacrificed in a ritual which but briefly manifested
your presence,” said Professor Quirrell. “I suppose we will discover
tomorrow whether anyone took that seriously, when we read the newspapers
and see whether all the magical nations of the world are banding
together in a desperate effort to seal off your incursion into our
reality.”

They walked on, as the Defence Professor began chuckling, odd throaty
sounds.

The two of them didn’t talk after that until they came to the Defence
Professor’s office, and then the man halted with his hand upon the door.

“It is a very strange thing,” the Defence Professor said, his voice now
soft again, almost inaudible. The man was not looking at Harry, and
Harry saw only his back. “A very strange thing… There was a time when I
would have sacrificed a finger from my wand hand, to work upon the
bullies of Hogwarts as we have worked upon them this day. To make them
fear me as they now fear you, to have the deference of all the students
and the adoration of many, I would have given my finger for that. You
have everything now that I wanted then. All that I know of human nature
says that I should hate you. And yet I do not. It is a very strange
thing.”

It should have been a touching moment, but instead Harry felt a coldness
travelling down his spine, as though he were a little fish in the sea,
and some vast white shark had just looked him over and decided after a
visible hesitation not to eat him.

The man opened the door to Defence Professor’s office, and passed
within, and was gone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath

Her fellow Slytherins were looking at Daphne like… like they didn’t have
the faintest idea of how to look at her.

The Gryffindors were looking at her like they didn’t have the faintest
idea of how to look at her.

Showing no fear, Daphne Greengrass strode into the Potions classroom,
wrapped in the imperious dignity of a Noble and Most Ancient House.
Inside she was feeling much the same way everyone else probably did.

It had been two hours since the What? when the What? had happened and
Daphne’s brain was still going: What? What? What?

The classroom was quiet as they all waited for Professor Snape to
arrive. Lavender and Parvati sat near a cluster of other Gryffindors,
surrounded by silent stares. The two of them were looking over each
other’s homework before class started, and nobody else was helping them
or talking to them. Even Lavender, who Daphne would have sworn could
never be fazed by anything, seemed subdued.

Daphne sat down at her desk, and took Magical Draughts and Potions out
of her bag, and began looking over her own homework, doing her very best
to act normal. People stared at her, and said nothing—

A gasp went through the whole classroom. Girls and boys flinched back,
leaning away from the door like they were stalks of wheat touched by a
gust of wind.

In the door stood Tracey Davis, wrapped in a black tattered cloak which
had been draped over her Hogwarts uniform.

Tracey walked slowly into the classroom, swaying slightly with each
step, looking like she was trying to drift. She sat down at her
accustomed desk, which happened to be right next to Daphne’s.

Slowly Tracey’s head turned to stare at Daphne.

“See?” the Slytherin girl said in a low, sepulchral tone. “I told you
I’d get him before she did.”

“What?” blurted Daphne, who immediately wished she hadn’t said anything.

“I got Harry Potter before Granger did.” Tracey’s voice was still low,
but her eyes were gleaming with triumph. “See, Daphne, what General
Potter wants in a girl isn’t a pretty face or a pretty dress. He wants a
girl willing to channel his dread powers, that’s what he wants. Now I’m
his—and he’s mine!”

This announcement produced a frozen silence through the whole classroom.

“Excuse me, Miss Davis,” said the cultured voice of Draco Malfoy, who
seemed unconcerned as he shuffled through his own Potions parchments.
The other scion of a Most Ancient House didn’t so much as glance up from
his desk, even as everyone else turned to look at him. “Did Harry Potter
actually tell you that? Using those words?”

“Well, no…” Tracey said, and then her eyes flashed angrily. “But he’d
better take me in, now that I’ve sacrificed my soul to him and
everything!”

“You sacrificed your soul to Harry Potter?” gasped Millicent. There was
a clatter from the other side of the room as Ron Weasley dropped his
inkwell.

“Well, I’m pretty sure I did,” said Tracey, sounding briefly uncertain
before she rallied. “I mean, I looked at myself in a mirror and I look
paler now, and I can always feel darkness surrounding me, and I was a
conduit for his dread powers and everything… Daphne, you also saw my
eyes go green, right? I didn’t see it myself but that’s what I heard
afterwards.”

There was a pause, broken only by the sounds of Ron Weasley trying to
clean up his desk.

“Daphne?” said Tracey.

“I don’t believe it,” said an angry voice. “There’s no way the next Dark
Lord would take you to be his bride!”

Slowly, and with considerable disbelief, heads turned to stare at Pansy
Parkinson.

“Hush, you,” said Tracey, “or I’ll…” The Slytherin girl paused. Then
Tracey’s voice went even lower, and she said, “Hush, you, or I’ll devour
your soul.”

“You can’t do that,” said Pansy, in the confident tones of a hen which
had worked out a perfectly good pecking order where she was at the top,
and wasn’t about to go updating that belief based on mere evidence.

Slowly, like she was trying to float, Tracey got up from her desk. There
were more gasps. Daphne felt like she’d been Petrified in place within
her chair.

“Tracey?” said Lavender in a small voice. “Please don’t do all that
again. Please?”

Now Pansy was showing definite nervousness as Tracey swayed toward her
desk. “What d’you think you’re doing?” Pansy said, not quite managing to
sound indignant.

“I told you,” Tracey said menacingly. “I’m going to devour your soul.”

Tracey bent down over Pansy, who sat frozen at her desk; and, with their
lips almost touching, made a loud inhaling noise.

“There!” said Tracey as she straightened. “I ate your soul.”

“No you didn’t!” said Pansy.

“Did too!” said Tracey.

There was a very slight pause—

“Merlin, she did!” cried Theodore Nott. “You look all pale now, and your
eyes seem empty!”

“What?” screeched Pansy, turning pale. The girl leapt up from her desk
and began frantically rummaging through her book bag. After Pansy drew
out a mirror and looked at herself, she turned even paler.

Daphne abandoned all pretence of aristocratic poise and let her head
fall to the desk with a dull thud, as she wondered whether going to the
same school as all the other important families was really worth going
to the same school as the Chaos Legion.

“Ooh, you’re in trouble now, Pansy,” said Seamus Finnigan. “I don’t know
exactly what happens when a Dementor Kisses you, but if Tracey Davis
kisses you that’s probably even worse.”

“I’ve heard about people without souls,” Dean Thomas said gloomily.
“They have to dress all in black, and they write awful poetry, and
nothing ever makes them happy. They’re all angsty.”

“I don’t want to be angsty!” cried Pansy.

“Too bad,” said Dean Thomas. “You’ve got to be, now that your soul’s
gone.”

Pansy turned, and stretched out a begging hand toward Draco Malfoy’s
desk. “Draco!” she said pleadingly. “Mr Malfoy! Please, make Tracey give
me back my soul!”

“I can’t,” said Tracey. “I ate it.”

“Make her throw it up!” yelled Pansy.

The heir of Malfoy had slumped forward, resting his head in both hands,
so that nobody could see his face. “Why is my life like this?” said
Draco Malfoy.

A wild babble of whispers started up as Tracey returned to her desk, now
smiling in satisfaction, while Pansy stood in the midst of the
classroom, wringing her hands and tears starting from her eyes—

“Be. Quiet.”

The soft, lethal voice seemed to fill the whole classroom as Professor
Snape stalked in through the door. His face was angrier than Daphne had
ever seen it, sending a jolt of genuine fear down her spine. Hastily she
looked down at her homework.

“Sit down, Parkinson,” the Potions Master hissed, “and you, Davis, take
off that ridiculous cloak—”

“Professor Snaaaaaape!” wailed Pansy Parkinson in tears. “Tracey ate my
sooouuul!”

75. Self Actualization, Part X:Responsibility

IT was a looping, meandering alley in the midst of Hogwarts, wandering
like a stray lock of hair; sometimes crossing itself, it seemed, but you
couldn’t ever get to the end if you gave into the temptation of apparent
shortcuts.

At the end of the tangle, six students leaned against rough stones,
robes black against the grey walls and trimmed in green, eyes darting
from one to each other. Torches burned in the windowless sconce, casting
light to ward off the darkness and heat to ward off the chill of the
Slytherin dungeons.

“I am certain,” Reese Belka snapped, “absolutely certain, that was no
true ritual. Little firstie witches can’t do that kind of magic, and
even if they could, who’s ever heard of a Dark ritual which sacrifices a
sealed horror for—that?”

“Were you—” said Lucian Bole. “I mean—after that girl snapped her
fingers—”

Belka’s glare should have melted him. “No,” she spat, “I was not.”

“That is, she wasn’t naked,” drawled Marcus Flint, his broad shoulders
leaning back in apparent relaxation against the lumpy stone surface.
“Covered in chocolate frosting, yes, but not naked.”

“This day Potter has offered great insult to our Houses,” said the grim
voice of Jaime Astorga.

“Yes, well, I’m sorry to be blunt,” Randolph Lee said evenly. The
seventh-year duellist rubbed at his chin, where a faint fuzz of beard
had been allowed to grow. “But when someone sticks you to the ceiling,
it’s a message, Astorga. It’s a message which says: I’m an incredibly
powerful Dark Wizard who could’ve done anything to you I damn well
pleased, and I don’t care if your House is offended, either.”

Robert Jugson III gave a soft, low laugh at this, a chuckle that sent
chills down several spines. “It makes you wonder if you picked the wrong
side, doesn’t it? I’ve heard tales about messages like that, sent at the
old Dark Lord’s bidding…”

“I’m not ready to kneel to Potter just yet,” said Astorga, staring hard
into Jugson’s eyes.

“Neither am I,” said Belka.

Jugson was holding his wand, and he turned it idly back and forth in his
fingers, pointing it up and then downward. “Are you a Gryffindor or a
Slytherin?” said Jugson. “Everyone’s got a price. Everyone smart.”

This statement produced a moment of silence.

“Shouldn’t Malfoy be here?” Bole said tentatively.

Flint gave a dismissive flick of his fingers. “Whatever Malfoy’s
plotting, he wants to put on an air of innocence. He can’t be seen
missing at the same time as us.”

“But everyone knows that already,” said Bole. “Even in the other
Houses.”

“Yes, very clumsy,” said Belka. She snorted. “Malfoy or no, he’s just a
little firstie and we don’t need him here.”

“I will owl my father,” Jugson said softly, “and he will speak to Lord
Malfoy himself—” Abruptly, Jugson stopped speaking.

“I don’t know about you, dearies,” Belka said with fake sweetness, “but
I don’t plan on running scared from a false ritual, and I’m not done
with Potter and his pet mudblood.”

Nobody answered. All their gazes were looking past her.

Slowly, Belka turned around to see what the others were staring at.

“You will do nothing,” hissed their Head of House. Severus Snape’s face
was enraged, when he spoke small spots of spittle flew from his mouth,
further dotting his already-dirtied robes. “You fools have done enough!
You have embarrassed my House—lost to first-years—now you speak of
embroiling noble Lords of the Wizengamot in your pathetic childish
squabbles? I shall deal with this matter. You will not embarrass this
House again, you will not risk embarrassing this House again! You are
done with fighting witches, and if I hear otherwise—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you thought they’d be sitting next to each other at dinner time,
after that, you’d be quite mistaken.

“What does she want from me?” came the plaintive cry of a boy who, for
all his extensive reading in the scientific literature, was still a bit
naive about certain things. “Did she want to get beaten up?”

The upper-year Ravenclaw boys who’d sat down next to him at the dinner
table exchanged swift glances with each other. Chosen by some unspoken
protocol, the most experienced of their number spoke.

“Look,” said Arty Grey, the seventh-year who was leading in their
competition by three witches and a Defence Professor, “the thing you’ve
got to understand is, just because she’s angry doesn’t mean you lost
points. Miss Granger is angry because she got all frightened and you’re
there to be blamed, you understand? But at the same time, even though
she won’t admit it, she’ll be touched that her boyfriend went to such
ridiculous and frankly insane lengths to protect her.”

“This is not about points,” ground out Harry Potter, the words visibly
escaping from between his clenched teeth. Dinner sat ignored on the
table in front of him. “This is about justice. And I. Am. Not. Her.
Boyfriend!”

This was met by a certain amount of sniggering from all present.

“Yeah, well,” said a sixth-year Ravenclaw boy, “I think after she kisses
you to bring you out of Dementation and you stick forty-four bullies to
the ceiling for her, we’ve gone way past ‘she’s not my girlfriend,
really’ and into the question of what your kids will be like. Wow,
that’s a scary thought…” The Ravenclaw trailed off and then said, in a
smaller voice, “Please don’t look at me like that.”

“Look,” said Arty Grey, “I’m sorry to be blunt about this, but you can
have justice or you can have girls, you can’t have both at the same
time.” He clapped a companionable hand on Harry Potter’s shoulder.
“You’ve got potential, kid, more potential than any wizard I’ve ever
seen, but you’ve got to learn how to use it, you know? Be a bit sweeter
to them, learn some spells to clean up that mess you call hair. Above
all, you need to hide your evilness better—not too well, but better.
Nice well-groomed boys get girls, and Dark Wizards also get girls, but
nice well-groomed boys suspected of being secretly Dark get more girls
than you can imagine—”

“Not interested,” Harry said flatly, as he picked up the boy’s hand from
his shoulder and unceremoniously dropped it.

“But you will be,” said Arty Grey, his voice low and foreboding. “Ah,
you will be!”

Elsewhere along the same table—

“Romantic?” shrieked Hermione Granger, so loudly that some of the girls
next to her winced. “What part of that was romantic? He didn’t ask! He
never asks! He just sends ghosts after people and glues them to ceilings
and does whatever he wants with my life!”

“But don’t you see?” said a fourth-year witch. “It means that even
though he’s evil, he loves you!”

“You’re not helping,” said Penelope Clearwater a little further down the
table, but she was ignored. Several older witches had started toward
Hermione, after she’d sat down at the extreme opposite end of the table
from Harry Potter, but then a swifter cloud of younger girls had
surrounded Hermione in an impenetrable barrier.

“Boys,” said Hermione Granger, “should not be allowed to love girls
without asking them first! This is true in a number of ways and
especially when it comes to gluing people to the ceiling!”

This was also ignored. “It’s just like a play!” sighed a third-year
girl.

“A play?” said Hermione. “I’d like to see the play where anything like
this happens!”

“Oh,” said the third-year girl, “I was thinking of that really romantic
one where there’s this very nice, sweet boy who makes a Floo call, only
he mispronounces his destination and stumbles out into this room full of
Dark Wizards who are performing a forbidden ritual that should’ve stayed
forever lost to time, and they’re sacrificing seven victims in order to
unseal this ancient horror which is supposed to grant someone a wish if
it’s freed, so of course the boy’s presence interrupts the ritual, and
as the horror is eating all the Dark Wizards and everyone is dying the
boy’s last thought is that he wishes he could’ve had a girlfriend, and
the next thing you know the boy is lying in the lap of this beautiful
woman whose eyes are burning with a dreadful light, only she doesn’t
understand anything about being human so the boy always has to stop her
eating people. This is just like that play, only you’re the boy and
Harry Potter is the girl!”

“That…” Hermione said, feeling quite surprised. “That actually does
sound something like—”

“It does?” blurted a second-year girl sitting across the table, who was
now leaning forward, looking horrified and yet even more fascinated.

“No!” said Hermione. “I mean—he’s not my boyfriend!”

Two seconds later, Hermione’s ears caught up with what her lips had just
said.

The fourth-year witch put her hand on Hermione’s shoulder and gave her a
comforting squeeze. “Miss Granger,” she said in a soothing voice, “I
think if you’re really honest with yourself, you’ll admit that the real
reason you’re angry with your dark master is that he channelled his
unspeakable powers through Tracey Davis instead of you.”

Hermione’s mouth opened but her throat locked up before the words came
out, which was probably a good thing, because if she’d actually yelled
that loudly it would’ve broken something.

“How’s that possible, actually?” said the third-year girl. “I mean for
Harry Potter to work through another girl even though he’s bound himself
to you? Do the three of you have one of those, you know, arrangements?”

“Gaaaaack,” said Hermione Granger, her throat still locked, her brain
halted, and her vocal cords spontaneously making a noise like she was
coughing up a hairball.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Later)

“I don’t understand why you’re being so unreasonable,” said another
second-year witch, who’d replaced the third-year girl after Hermione had
threatened to ask Tracey to eat her soul. “I mean, really, if someone
like Harry Potter rescued me, I’d be—sending him thank-you cards, and
hugging him, and,” the girl’s face was a bit red, “well, kissing him,
I’d hope.”

“Yeah!” said the other second-year witch. “I’ve never understood why
girls in plays get angry when the main character goes out of his way to
be nice to them. I wouldn’t act like that if the hero liked me.”

Hermione Granger had dropped her head to the dinner table, her hands
slowly pulling at her hair.

“You just don’t understand male psychology,” the fourth-year witch said
in an authoritative voice. “Granger’s got to make it look like she can
mysteriously resist his seductive charm.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Even later)

And so before long Hermione Granger had turned to the only person left
she could talk to, the only person guaranteed to understand her point of
view—

“They’re all mad,” said Hermione Granger as she strode vigorously toward
Ravenclaw tower, having left dinner a bit early. “Everyone except you
and me, Harry, I mean everyone except us in this whole school of
Hogwarts, they’re all entirely mad. And Ravenclaw girls are the worst, I
don’t know what Ravenclaw girls go reading when they get older, but I’m
certain they ought not to be reading it. One witch asked me if the two
of us had soul-bonded, which I’m going to look up in the library
tonight, but I’m pretty sure has never actually happened—”

“I don’t even know a name for this kind of fallacious reasoning,” said
Harry Potter. The boy was walking normally, which meant he often had to
skip forward a few steps to match her own indignation-fuelled speed. “I
seriously think if it was up to them, they’d be dragging us off this
minute to get our names changed to Potter-Evans-Verres-Granger… Ugh,
saying that out loud makes me realize how awful it sounds.”

“You mean your name would be Potter-Evans-Verres-Granger and mine would
be Granger-Potter-Evans-Verres,” said Hermione. “It’s too horrible to
imagine.”

“No,” said the boy, “House Potter is a Noble House, so I think that name
stays in front—”

“What?” she said indignantly. “Who says we have to—”

There was a sudden awful silence, broken only by the thuds of their
shoes.

“Anyhow,” Hermione said hastily, “some of the crazy things they said at
dinner got me thinking, so I just want to say, Harry, that I really am
grateful to you for saving me and everybody from getting beaten up, and
even though some parts of this afternoon upset me, I’m sure we can just
talk about it calmly.”

“Ah…” Harry said with a faint and tentative smile, his eyes showing a
mixture of befuddlement and apprehension, “that’s… good, I guess?”

To be specific, there’d been the fourth-year witch explaining that,
since Harry was the evil wizard who’d fallen in love with Hermione, and
Hermione was the pure and innocent girl who would either redeem him or
get seduced by the Dark Arts herself, it followed that Hermione had to
be perpetually indignant at anything Harry did, even if it was him
heroically saving her from certain doom, just so that their romance
wouldn’t resolve itself before the end of Act IV. And then Penelope
Clearwater, whom Hermione had really thought was smarter than that, had
remarked in a loud voice that for identical reasons it was impossible
for Hermione to just go over and talk sensibly with Harry about why she
was feeling hurt, and anyway Dark Wizards were attracted to passionate
defiance in a woman, not logic. This was the point at which Hermione had
shoved herself up from the benches, stomped furiously over to where
Harry was sitting, and asked him in a reasonable voice if the two of
them could go for a walk and sort things out.

“So in other words,” Hermione said in her calmest voice ever, “you’re
not really in trouble with me, I’m still talking to you, we’re still
friends, and we’re still studying together. We’re not having a fight.
Right?”

Somehow this only seemed to increase Harry Potter’s apprehension.
“Right,” said the Boy-Who-Lived.

“Great!” said Hermione. “So, have you worked out why I was upset,
Mr Potter?”

There was a pause. “You wanted me to keep out of your affairs?” Harry
said cautiously. “I mean—I know you wanted to do things on your own. And
I was staying out of your way, until I’d heard you’d been ambushed by
three junior Death Eaters and, honestly, I wasn’t expecting that.
Professor Quirrell wasn’t expecting that. I started to worry you were in
over your head and then, no offense Hermione, forty-four bullies in a
massed ambush is way beyond what anyone could handle without help.
That’s why I thought you really needed help just that once—”

“No, that part’s fine,” said Hermione. “We were in over our heads,
honestly. Please guess again, Mr Potter.”

“Um,” said Harry. “What Tracey did… startled you?”

“Startled me, Mr Potter?” There might have been a touch of acidity in
her voice. “No, Mr Potter, I was scared. I was frightened. I wouldn’t
want to admit to being afraid of just dragons or something, people might
think I was cowardly, but when you can hear distant voices crying
‘Tekeli-li! Tekeli-li!’ and there’s pools of blood seeping out from
under all the doors, then it’s okay to be scared.”

“I am sorry,” Harry said with what sounded like genuine regret. “I
thought you’d realize it was me.”

“And the reason we all got scared like that, Mr Potter, was that you
didn’t ask first!” Despite her intentions, Hermione found her voice was
rising again. “You should’ve asked me before you did something like
that, Harry! You should’ve said very specifically, ‘Hermione, can I make
blood come out from under the doors?’ It’s important to be specific when
you’re asking about that sort of thing!”

The boy rubbed the back of his neck as he walked. “I… honestly, I just
thought you’d have to say no.”

“Yes, Mr Potter, I could’ve said no. That’s the whole point of asking
first, Mr Potter!”

“No, I mean you’d have had to say no, whether or not it was what you
really wanted. And then all of you would’ve been beaten up and it
would’ve been my fault for asking first.”

Hermione’s eyebrows went up in a bit of surprise, and she kept walking
for a few steps while she tried to understand this. “What?” she said.

“Well…” the boy said a bit slowly. “I mean… you’re the Sunshine General,
aren’t you? You couldn’t say yes to me scaring people, not even bullies,
not even to save your friends from getting beaten up. You would’ve had
to say no, and then you would’ve been hurt. This way, you can tell
people honestly that you had no idea and that it wasn’t your fault.
That’s why I didn’t warn you.”

Hermione stopped walking, turned to face Harry full on instead of just
turning her head. Her voice was carefully even as she said, “Harry,
you’ve got to stop coming up with clever reasons for doing stupid
things.”

Harry’s eyebrows flew up. After a moment he said, “Look… I know what you
mean, of course, but there’s still the question of whether it actually
is a good idea, not just a clever one—”

“I understand why you did what you did today,” Hermione said. “But I
want you to promise that from now on, you’ll ask me first, always, even
if you can come up with a reason why you shouldn’t.”

There was a pause that stretched, and Hermione could feel her heart
sinking.

“Hermione—” Harry started to say.

“Why?” The frustration burst out into her voice. “Why is it so awful?
All you have to do is ask!”

Harry’s eyes were very serious. “Who in SPHEW do you try hardest to
defend, Hermione? Who are you most afraid for, when you fight?”

“Hannah Abbott,” Hermione said without having to think about it, and
then felt a little bad, because Hannah was trying hard and she had
improved a lot—

“Would you feel okay about trusting someone else, like Tracey, with
final responsibility for protecting Hannah? If you knew Hannah was about
to walk into an ambush, and you came up with a plan for protecting her,
would you feel good about letting Tracey say whether or not you were
allowed to do it?”

“Well… no?” said Hermione, puzzled.

The green eyes of the Boy-Who-Lived were steady on hers. “Would you
trust Hannah to have the final say in whether she needed protecting?”

“I—” said Hermione, and then paused. It was strange, she knew the right
answer and she also knew the right answer wasn’t actually true. Hannah
was trying so hard to prove she wasn’t afraid, even though she was, and
it was easy to see how the Hufflepuff girl might try too hard—

Then Hermione realized the implication. “You think I’m like Hannah?”

“Not… exactly…” Harry ran his hands through his unruly hair. “Listen,
Hermione, what would you have suggested doing, if I’d warned you about
an ambush by forty-four bullies?”

“I would’ve done the responsible thing and told Professor McGonagall and
let her take care of it,” Hermione said promptly. “And then there
wouldn’t have been darkness and people screaming and horrible blue
light—”

But Harry just shook his head. “That’s not the responsible thing to do,
Hermione. It’s what someone playing the role of a responsible girl would
do. Yes, I thought of going to Professor McGonagall. But she would’ve
only stopped the disaster once. Probably before any disturbance happened
in the first place, like by telling the bullies she knew. If the bullies
got punished just for plotting, it would be by losing House points, or
at worst a day’s detention, not anything that would really scare them.
And then the bullies would have tried again. Fewer of them, with better
operational security so I didn’t hear about it. They would probably
ambush one of you, alone. Professor McGonagall doesn’t have the
authority to do something scary enough to protect you—and she wouldn’t
have overstepped her authority, because she’s not really responsible.”

“Professor McGonagall isn’t responsible?” Hermione said incredulously.
She jammed her hands on her hips, now openly glaring at him. “Are you
nuts?”

The boy didn’t blink. “You could call it heroic responsibility, maybe,”
Harry Potter said. “Not like the usual sort. It means that whatever
happens, no matter what, it’s always your fault. Even if you tell
Professor McGonagall, she’s not responsible for what happens, you are.
Following the school rules isn’t an excuse, someone else being in charge
isn’t an excuse, even trying your best isn’t an excuse. There just
aren’t any excuses, you’ve got to get the job done no matter what.”
Harry’s face tightened. “That’s why I say you’re not thinking
responsibly, Hermione. Thinking that your job is done when you tell
Professor McGonagall—that isn’t heroine thinking. Like Hannah being
beaten up is okay then, because it isn’t your fault any more. Being a
heroine means your job isn’t finished until you’ve done whatever it
takes to protect the other girls, permanently.” In Harry’s voice was a
touch of the steel he had acquired since the day Fawkes had been on his
shoulder. “You can’t think as if just following the rules means you’ve
done your duty.”

“I think,” Hermione said evenly, “that you and I might disagree about
some things, Mr Potter. Like whether you or Professor McGonagall is more
responsible, and whether being responsible usually involves people
running around and screaming, and how much it’s a good idea to follow
school rules. And just because we disagree, Mr Potter, doesn’t mean that
you get the final say.”

“Well,” said Harry, “you asked what was so awful about having to ask you
first, and it was a surprisingly good question, so I examined my mind
and that’s what I found. I think my real fear is that if Hannah is in
trouble and I come up with a way to save her that seems weird or dark or
something, you might not weigh the consequences to Hannah. You might not
accept the heroine’s responsibility of coming up with some way to save
her, somehow, no matter what. Instead you’d just carry out the role of
Hermione Granger, the sensible Ravenclaw girl; and the role of Hermione
Granger automatically says no, whether or not she has a better plan in
mind. And then forty-four bullies will take turns beating up Hannah
Abbott, and it’ll all be my fault because I knew, even if I didn’t want
reality to be that way, I knew that was how it would go. I’m pretty sure
that was my secret, wordless, unutterable fear.”

The frustration was building up inside her again. “It’s my life!”
Hermione burst out. She could imagine what it would be like with Harry
messing with her all the time, constantly inventing justifications not
to ask her first and not to listen to her objections. She shouldn’t have
to win an argument just to—“There’ll always be some reason, you can
always say I’m not thinking right! I want my own life! Otherwise I’ll
walk away, I really will, I mean it Harry.”

Harry sighed. “This is exactly where I didn’t want things to end up, and
here we are. You’re afraid of just the same thing I am, aren’t you?
Afraid that if you let go of the steering wheel, we’ll crash.” The
corners of his lips twisted, but it didn’t look like a real smile.
“That’s something I can understand.”

“I don’t think you understand at all!” Hermione said sharply. “You said
we’d be partners, Harry!”

That stopped him, she could see it stop him.

“How about this?” Harry said at last. “I’ll promise to ask you first
before I do anything that could be interpreted as meddling in your
affairs. Only you’ve got to promise me to be reasonable, Hermione. I
mean really, genuinely, stop and think for twenty seconds first, treat
it as a real choice. The sort of reasonableness where you realize I’m
offering a way to protect the other girls, and that if you automatically
say no without considering it properly, there’s this actual consequence
where Hannah Abbott ends up in the hospital.”

Hermione stared at Harry, as his recitation wound up.

“Well?” said Harry.

“I shouldn’t have to make promises,” she said, “just to be consulted
about my own life.” She turned from Harry and began walking toward the
Ravenclaw tower, not looking at him. “But I’ll think about it, anyway.”

She heard Harry sigh, and after that they walked in silence for a while,
passing through an archway of some reddish metal like copper, into a
corridor that was just like the one they’d left except that it was tiled
with pentagons instead of squares.

“Hermione…” said Harry. “I’ve been watching you and thinking, since the
day you said you were going to be a hero. You’ve got the courage. You’ll
fight for what’s right, even in the face of enemies that would scare
other people away. You’ve certainly got the raw intelligence for it, and
you’re probably a better person inside than I am. But even so… well, to
be honest, Hermione… I can’t quite see you filling Dumbledore’s shoes,
leading magical Britain’s fight against You-Know-Who. Not yet, anyway.”

Hermione had turned her head to stare at Harry, who just went on
walking, as though lost in thought. Fill those shoes? She’d never tried
to imagine herself that way. She’d never imagined imagining herself that
way.

“And maybe I’m wrong,” Harry said as they walked. “Maybe I’ve just read
too many stories where the heroes never do the sensible thing and follow
the rules and tell their Professor McGonagalls, so my brain doesn’t
think you’re a proper storybook hero. Maybe it’s you who’s the sane one,
Hermione, and me who’s just being silly. But every time you talk about
following rules or relying on teachers, I get that same feeling, like
it’s bound up with this one last thing that’s stopping you, one last
thing that puts your PC self to sleep and turns you into an NPC again…”
Harry let out a sigh. “Maybe that’s why Dumbledore said I should have
wicked step-parents.”

“He said what?”

Harry nodded. “I still don’t know whether the Headmaster was joking or…
the thing is, he was right in a way. I had loving parents, but I never
felt like I could trust their decisions, they weren’t sane enough. I
always knew that if I didn’t think things through myself, I might get
hurt. Professor McGonagall will do whatever it takes to get the job done
if I’m there to nag her about it, she doesn’t break rules on her own
without heroic supervision. Professor Quirrell really is someone who
gets things done no matter what, and he’s the only other person I know
who notices stuff like the Snitch ruining Quidditch. But him I can’t
trust to be good. Even if it’s sad, I think that’s part of the
environment that creates what Dumbledore calls a hero—people who don’t
have anyone else to shove final responsibility onto, and that’s why they
form the mental habit of tracking everything themselves.”

Hermione didn’t say anything to that, but she was thinking back to
something Godric Gryffindor had written near the end of his very short
autobiography. Briefly and without any explanation, because the scroll
had been meant to be copied by hand, centuries before the Muggle
printing press had inspired wizards to invent the Reading-Writing Quill.

No rescuer hath the rescuer, Godric Gryffindor had written. No Lord hath
the champion, no mother and no father, nothing above.

If that was the price of being a hero, Hermione wasn’t sure she wanted
to pay it. Or maybe—though it wasn’t the sort of thing she would have
thought, before she started hanging around Harry—maybe Godric Gryffindor
had got it wrong.

“Do you trust Dumbledore?” Hermione said. “I mean, he’s right here in
our school and he’s the most legendary hero in the whole world—”

“He was the most legendary hero,” said Harry. “Now he sets chickens on
fire. Honestly, does Dumbledore seem reliable to you?”

Hermione didn’t answer.

Side by side, the two of them began to climb huge wide spiral stairs,
the steps alternating between bronze metal and blue stone; the final
approach to where the Ravenclaw portrait waited to guard their dorm with
silly riddles.

“Oh, and I just thought of something I should tell you,” Harry said when
they were about halfway up. “Since it affects your life and all. Think
of it as a sort of down payment—”

“What is it?” said Hermione.

“I predict SPHEW is about to retire.”

“Retire?” Hermione said, almost stumbling on one of the stairs.

“Yeah,” Harry said. “I mean, I could be wrong, but I suspect the
teachers are about to clamp down hard on fighting in the corridors.”
Harry was grinning as he spoke, a glint in his eyes behind the glasses
hinting at secret knowledge. “Cast new wards to detect offensive hexes,
or start verifying reports of bullying using Veritaserum—I can think of
several ways they might shut it down. But if I’m right, it’s something
to celebrate, Hermione, you and all of you. You kicked up enough public
ruckus that you got them to actually do something about the bullying.
All the bullying.”

Slowly, then, a smile began to creep up her lips, and as she reached the
top of the stairs and began walking toward the Ravenclaw portrait for
her riddle, Hermione felt rather lighter on her feet, a wonderful
lifting feeling spreading through her like she’d been pumped full of
helium.

Somehow, despite all the effort the eight of them had put in, she hadn’t
expected that much, she hadn’t expected it to actually work.

They’d made a difference…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was the end of breakfast time on the next morning.

The students from every year sat very still in their benches, all heads
turned in the same direction, toward the Head Table, before which one
lone first-year girl stood rigid and motionless, her head tilted back to
stare up at the Head of House Slytherin.

Professor Snape’s face was twisted with fury and triumph, vindictive as
any painting of a Dark Wizard; and behind him the other Professors sat
at the Head Table, watching with faces as though carved from stone.

“—permanently disbanded,” spat the Potions Master. “Your self-proclaimed
Society is outlawed within Hogwarts, by my decision as a Professor! If
your Society or any member of it is discovered fighting in the hallways
again, Granger, you will be personally held responsible and expelled, by
me, from the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry!”

That first-year girl stood there, before the Head Table where she’d been
called before only to receive commendations and smiles; stood there with
her spine held tall and upright in its curve like a centaur’s bow,
giving nothing to the enemy.

That first-year witch stood there with all tears and anger bottled, her
face still, nothing changing of her outward appearance, while something
slowly broke inside her, she could feel it breaking.

It broke further when Professor Snape gave her two weeks detention for
the crime of violence in school, sneering with the contemptuous face
he’d shown them all on the first day of Potions, and with a little twist
in the corner of his smile that said the Potions Master knew exactly how
unfair he was being.

Whatever it was inside her cracked all the way through, from top to
bottom, when Professor Snape took one hundred points from Ravenclaw.

It ended, then, and Snape told her she was dismissed.

She turned around and saw that at the Ravenclaw table, Harry Potter was
sitting still in his place, she couldn’t see his expression from here,
she saw his fists on the table but she couldn’t see if they were
clenched white like her own. She had whispered to him, when Professor
Snape had called her, that he wasn’t to do anything without asking
first.

Hermione wheeled back again to look at the Head Table, just as Snape was
turning away from her to resume his place.

“I said you’re dismissed, girl,” said the sneering voice, but there was
a pleased smile on Snape’s face, like he was waiting for her to do
something—

Hermione strode forward another five steps toward the Head Table and
said in a breaking voice, “Headmaster?”

Utter silence filled the Great Hall.

Headmaster Dumbledore said nothing, didn’t move. It was as though he,
too, was just carved from stone.

Hermione turned her gaze to look at Professor Flitwick, whose head,
barely visible above the table, seemed to be staring down into his lap.
Beside him, Professor Sprout’s face was very tight, she seemed to be
forcing herself to watch, and her lips were trembling, but she said
nothing.

Professor McGonagall’s chair was empty, the Deputy Headmistress hadn’t
shown up to breakfast that morning.

“Why aren’t any of you saying anything?” said Hermione Granger. Her
voice was trembling with the last of her hope, the last desperate reach
for help from that place inside her. “You know what he’s doing is
wrong!”

“Two more weeks’ detention, for insolence,” Snape said silkily.

It shattered.

She looked at the Head Table for a few seconds longer, at Professor
Flitwick and Professor Sprout and the empty place where Professor
McGonagall should’ve been. Then Hermione Granger turned and began
walking toward the Ravenclaw table.

There was a babble of voices starting up, as the students came unfrozen
from where they’d sat.

And then, as she was almost to the Ravenclaw table—

The dry voice of Professor Quirrell cut through everything, and that
voice said, “One hundred points to Miss Granger for doing what is
right.”

Hermione almost fell over her own feet; and then she continued forward,
even as Snape shouted something furious, even as Professor Quirrell
leaned back in his chair and began to laugh, even as Dumbledore’s voice
was saying something she didn’t catch and then she was sitting down at
the Ravenclaw table again next to Harry Potter.

Harry Potter was frozen beside her, he looked like someone who didn’t
dare move.

“It’s all right,” her voice said to him, automatically without there
being any choice or thought involved, although really it wasn’t right at
all. “But can you see if you can get me out of Snape’s detentions, like
you did yourself that time?”

Harry Potter nodded, a single jerky motion of his head. “I—” said Harry.
“I—I’m sorry, this—this is all my fault—”

“Don’t be ridiculous, Harry.” It was odd how her voice was coming out
all normal, and without her thinking about what to say. Hermione looked
down at her breakfast plate, but eating seemed to be clearly out of the
question, there was a roiling and churning in her stomach which
suggested that she was already on the verge of throwing up, which was
odd because she could have sworn her whole body felt numb, like she
wasn’t feeling anything, at the same time.

“And,” her voice said, “if you want to break school rules or something,
you can ask me about it, I promise I won’t just say no.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Non est salvatori salvator,
neque defensori dominus,
nec pater nec mater,
nihil supernum.

—Godric Gryffindor,
1202 C.E.

76. Interlude with the Confessor: Sunk Costs

RIANNE Felthorne descended the stairs of roughened stone and crude
mortar, keeping a Lumos lit through the distances between fire-sconces,
holding aloft her wand through the gaps from light to light.

She came to the empty rock cavern pierced by many dark openings, lit by
a torch of ancient style that fired as she entered.

There was no-one else there, as yet, and after long minutes of nervous
standing, she began the spell to Transfigure a cushioned sofa large
enough for two people to sit, or maybe even lie down on. A simple wooden
stool would have been easier, she could have done that in fifteen
seconds, but—well—

Even when the sofa was fully conjured, Professor Snape still hadn’t
arrived, and she sat down on the left side of her sofa with her pulse
hammering in her throat. Somehow she was only becoming more nervous, not
less, as the delay stretched.

She knew this was the last time.

The last time before all these memories went away, and Rianne Felthorne
found herself in a mysterious cavern, wondering what was going on.

There was something about it that felt like dying.

The books said a properly done Obliviation wasn’t harmful, people forgot
things all the time. People dreamed, and then woke up without
remembering their dreams. Obliviation didn’t even involve that much
discontinuity, just a brief instant of disorientation; it was like being
distracted by a loud noise and losing track of a thought you couldn’t
seem to remember afterwards. That was what the books said, and why
Memory Charms were fully approved by the Ministry for all authorized
governmental purposes.

But still, these thoughts, the thoughts she was thinking right now; soon
nobody would have them any more. When she looked ahead in the future,
there was nobody to complete the thoughts she wasn’t finished thinking.
Even if she managed to tie up all the loose ends in her mind over the
next minute, there wouldn’t be anything left of it afterwards. Wasn’t
that exactly what you would find yourself reflecting on, if you were
going to die in the next minute?

There came the sound of muffled steps…

Severus Snape emerged into the cavern.

His eyes moved to her sitting on the sofa, and a strange expression
crossed his face; strange because it wasn’t sardonic, or angry, or cold.

“Thank you, Miss Felthorne,” Snape said quietly, “that was considerate
of you.” The Potions Master took out his wand and performed the usual
privacy Charms, and then he moved toward her, and sat down heavily
beside her on the Transfigured sofa.

Her pulse was now pounding for another reason entirely.

She slowly turned to look at Professor Snape, and saw that his head was
leaning back against the sofa, and his eyes were closed. Not sleeping,
though. His face appeared tense, in pain.

She knew—she was suddenly certain—that she was only allowed to see this
sight because she wouldn’t remember it afterwards; and that nobody
before her had ever been allowed to see it.

The frantic conversation going on inside Rianne Felthorne’s mind sounded
something like this: I could just lean over and kiss him, you are
completely out of your tiny mind, his eyes are closed I bet he wouldn’t
stop me in time, I bet it would be years before anyone found your body—

But Professor Snape opened his eyes then (to her inner disappointment
and relief), and said, in a more normal voice, “Your payment,
Miss Felthorne.” From his robe he took a ruby, cut to Gringotts
standard, and held it out toward her. “Fifty facets. I will not mind if
you count them.”

She held out a trembling hand, hoping that Snape would press the ruby
into her fingers, that she would feel a touch of his skin alive against
hers—

But instead Snape raised his hand slightly and dropped the ruby into her
hand, then leaned back against the couch. “You will remember finding it
lying on the ground of this cavern, where you came exploring,” said
Snape. “And since nobody except you will actually believe that, you will
remember thinking that it would be less troublesome if you deposited the
money into a separate box in Gringotts.”

For a stretch there was only the faint crackling of the torch.

“Why—” Rianne Felthorne said. He knows I won’t remember. “Why did you do
it? I mean—you said to tell you where bullies would be, and who they
would be, but not whether Granger would be there. And I know, the way
the Time-Turner works, if you want to make Granger be there, you can’t
be told whether it’s already happened. So I did work out that we were
the ones telling her where to go. We were, weren’t we?”

Snape nodded without speaking. He had closed his eyes again.

“But,” said Rianne, “I didn’t understand why you were helping her. And
now—after what you did to Granger in the Great Hall—I just don’t
understand at all.” Rianne had never thought of herself as particularly
nice. She’d taken little notice of the controversy over the Sunshine
General. But something about helping Granger fight bullies had… well,
she’d got used to thinking of that as the good side, and thinking of
herself as being on the good side. And she’d found she actually liked
it. It was hard, to just let that go. “Why’d you do that, Professor
Snape?”

Snape shook his head, his face tightened.

“Is—” Rianne said falteringly. “I mean—so long as we’re here—is there
anything you do want to talk about?” There was something she wanted to
say, but she couldn’t make the words pass her own lips.

“I can think of one matter,” Snape said after a pause. “If you are
interested, Miss Felthorne.”

Snape’s eyes were still shut, so she couldn’t just nod her head. Her
voice almost broke, when she forced herself to say “Yes.”

“There’s a certain boy in your class who likes you, Miss Felthorne,”
Snape said from behind his closed eyes. “I won’t say his name. But he
watches you every time you walk across the room, when he thinks you
aren’t looking. He dreams about you and desires to possess you, but he’s
never asked you for so much as a kiss.”

Her heart started hammering even harder.

“Please tell me the honest truth, Miss Felthorne. What do you think of
that boy?”

“Well—” she said. She was stumbling over her words. “I think—to never
even ask for one kiss—would be—”

Sad.

Just too pitiful.

“Weakness,” she said, her voice trembling.

“I agree,” said Snape. “Suppose that boy had helped you, though. Would
you think that you owed him a kiss, if he asked?”

She inhaled sharply—

“Or would you think,” Snape continued, his eyes still closed, “that he
was just being bothersome?”

The words stabbed into her like a knife and she couldn’t help gasping
out loud.

Snape’s eyes flew open, and his gaze met hers across the sofa.

Then the Potions Master began to laugh, small sad chuckles.

“No, not you, Miss Felthorne!” Snape said. “Not you! We really are
talking about a boy. One who attends your Potions class, in fact.”

“Oh,” she said. She tried to remember what Snape had said before, now
feeling rather unnerved as she thought of some boy watching her, always
silently watching. “Well, um, in that case. That’s kind of creepy,
actually. Who is it?”

The Potions Master shook his head. “It doesn’t matter,” said Snape. “Out
of curiosity, what would you think if that boy were still in love with
you years later?”

“Um,” she said, feeling a bit confused, “that would be totally
pathetic?”

The torch crackled a bit in the cavern.

“It’s strange,” Snape said quietly. “I have had two mentors, over the
course of my days. Both were extraordinarily perceptive, and neither
ever told me the things I wasn’t seeing. It’s clear enough why the first
said nothing, but the second…” Snape’s face tightened. “I suppose I
would have to be naive, to ask why he stayed silent.”

The quiet stretched, while Rianne tried frantically to think of
something to say.

“It is an odd thing,” Snape said, his voice still softer, “to look back
after only thirty-two years, and wonder when your life was ruined past
all rescuing. Was it determined when the Sorting Hat cried ‘Slytherin!’
for me? It seems unfair, since I was offered no choice; the Sorting Hat
spoke the moment it touched upon my head. Yet I cannot claim it named me
untruly. I never treasured knowledge for its own sake. I was not loyal
to the one person I called friend. I was never one for righteous fury,
then or now. Courage? There is no bravery in risking a life already
ruined. My little fears have always mastered me, and I never turned
aside from any of the paths I walked down on account of those little
fears. No, the Sorting Hat could never have put me in her House. Perhaps
my final loss was determined, even then. Is that fair, I ask, even if
the Sorting Hat speaks truly? Is it fair that some children should
possess more courage than others, and thus a man’s life be judged?”

Rianne Felthorne was starting to realize that she’d never had the
tiniest inkling of who her Potions Master was inside, and unfortunately
all these dark hidden depths weren’t helping her with her problem.

“But no,” Snape said. “I know where it went wrong for the last time. I
could point to the very day and hour I missed my final chance.
Miss Felthorne, did the Sorting Hat offer you Ravenclaw?”

“Y-yes,” she said without thinking.

“Have you ever been any good at riddles?”

“Yes,” she said again, because whatever Professor Snape was about to
say, she wouldn’t hear it if she said no.

“I am terrible at riddles,” Snape said in a distant voice. “I was once
given a riddle to solve, and I did not understand even the simplest part
until too late. I did not even realize the riddle was meant for me until
too late. I thought I had merely happened to overhear it, when in truth
it was I who was overheard. So I sold my riddle to another, and that is
when the wreckage of my life passed beyond retrieval.” Snape’s voice was
still distant, sounding more abstracted than sorrowful. “And even now, I
understand nothing of importance. Tell me, Miss Felthorne, suppose a man
were carrying a knife, and he tripped over a baby and stabbed himself.
Would you say that the baby had,” Snape’s voice lowered, as though he
were imitating some still deeper voice, “THE POWER TO VANQUISH him?”

“Um… no?” she said hesitantly.

“Then what does it mean to have the power to vanquish someone?”

Rianne considered the puzzle. (Wishing, not for the first time in her
life, that she had chosen Ravenclaw and to perdition with her parents’
disapproval; but the Sorting Hat had never offered her Gryffindor.)
“Well…” Rianne said. She was having trouble putting her thoughts into
words. “It means you’ve got the power, but you don’t have to do it. It
means you could do it if you tried—”

“Choice,” the Potions Master said in the same faraway voice, as though
he wasn’t really talking to her at all. “There will be a choice. That is
what the riddle seems to imply. And that choice is not a foregone
conclusion to the chooser, for the riddle does not say, will vanquish,
but rather the power to vanquish. How would a grown man mark a baby as
his equal?”

“What?” said Rianne. She didn’t understand that at all.

“Marking a baby is simple. Any strong Dark curse would produce a lasting
scar. But such may be done to any child. What mark would signify that a
baby was your equal?”

She answered with the first thought that came to mind. “If you signed a
betrothal contract, that would mean you’d be equals with them some day,
when they grew up and you got married.”

“That…” said Snape. “That’s probably not it, Miss Felthorne, but thank
you for trying.” The long delicate fingers, honed by stirring potions to
unimaginably fine tolerances, reached up and rubbed at the temples of
the man’s forehead. “It is enough to drive me to madness, so much
hinging on such fragile words. Power he knows not… it must be more than
some unknown spell. Not something he could acquire simply by practice
and study. Some innate talent? No-one can learn to be a Metamorphmagus…
and yet that hardly seems like a power he knows not. Nor can I see how
either could destroy all but a remnant of the other; I can see it in one
direction, but not the reverse…” The Potions Master sighed. “And none of
this means anything to you, does it, Miss Felthorne? The words are
nothing. The words are shadows. It is her intonation which carries the
meaning and that is something I’ve never been able to…”

The Potions Master trailed off, while Rianne stared at him.

“A prophecy?” Rianne said in a high squeak. “You heard a prophecy?”
She’d taken Divination for a couple of months before dropping it in
disgust, and she knew that much about how it worked.

“I will try one last thing,” said Snape. “Something I have not tried
before. Miss Felthorne, listen to the sound of my voice, the way I say
it, not the words themselves, and tell me what you think it means. Can
you do that? Good,” said Snape, as she nodded obediently, though she
wasn’t sure at all what she was supposed to do.

And Severus Snape drew a breath, and intoned, “FOR THOSE TWO DIFFERENT
SPELLETS CANNOT EXIST IN THE SAME VULD.”

It sent shivers down her spine, all the worse for knowing the hollow
words had been spoken in imitation of a true prophecy. Unnerved, she
blurted out the first thing which came to mind, which might have been
influenced by her present company. “Those two different ingredients
cannot exist in the same cauldron?”

“But why not, Miss Felthorne? What is the meaning of a statement like
that? What are we really being told?”

“Ah…” she hazarded. “If the two ingredients mix, they’ll catch fire and
burn the cauldron?”

Snape’s face did not change expression in the slightest.

“Perhaps,” Snape finally said, after they’d sat on the sofa in awful
silence for what seemed like minutes. “It would explain the word must.
Thank you, Miss Felthorne. Once again you have been most helpful.”

“I—” she said, “I was glad to—” and the words stuck in her throat. The
Potions Master had thanked her with a tone of finality, and she knew
that the time of the Rianne Felthorne who remembered these moments was
drawing to an end. “I wish I didn’t have to forget this, Professor
Snape!”

“I wish,” Severus Snape said in a whisper so low she could hardly hear
it, “that everything had been different…”

The Potions Master stood up from the sofa, the weight of his presence
vanishing from beside her. He turned and drew his wand from his robes,
pointing it at her.

“Wait—” she said. “Before that—”

Somehow it was unbelievably hard to take the first step from fantasy to
reality, from imagining to doing. Even if it was only one step and would
never go any further. The gap stretched like the distance between two
mountains.

The Sorting Hat had never offered her Gryffindor…

…was it fair that thus a woman’s life be judged?

If you can’t say it now, when you won’t even remember it afterwards—when
nothing will continue from this moment, just as if you were to die—then
when will you ever say it, to anyone?

“Can I have a kiss first?” said Rianne Felthorne.

Snape’s black eyes studied her so intensely that her blush started to
reach all the way to her chest, and she wondered if he knew perfectly
well that she was still being weak, and it wasn’t a kiss she’d truly
wanted.

“Why not,” the Potions Master said quietly, and he leaned his head down
over the sofa and kissed her.

It was nothing like she’d imagined. In her fantasies Snape’s kisses were
fierce, seized from her, but this was—it was just awkward, actually.
Snape’s lips pressed down too hard on hers, forcing them back against
her teeth, and the angle wasn’t right and their noses were sort of
bending and his lips were too tight and—

Only as the Potions Master straightened back up again, raising his wand
once more, did she realize.

“That wasn’t—” she said in a wondering voice, looking up at him. “That
wasn’t—was it—your first—”

Rianne Felthorne blinked at the stone cavern she’d discovered, still
holding the extraordinary ruby she’d found embedded in the dirt of one
corner. It was an incredible windfall, and she didn’t know why looking
at the ruby made her feel so sad, like she’d forgotten something,
something that had been precious to her.

77. Self-Actualization, Aftermaths: Surface Appearances

Aftermath: Albus Dumbledore and—

THE old wizard sat alone at his desk, in the unsilence of the
Headmaster’s office, amid the innumerable and unnoticed devices; his
robes a gentle yellow, of soft fabric, not such clothing as he
ordinarily wore before others. His wrinkled hand held a quill scratching
away at an official-looking parchment. If you had somehow been there to
watch his lined face, you would have been unable to deduce anything more
about the man himself than you understood of the enigmatic devices. You
might have observed that the face looked a little sad, a little tired,
but then Albus Dumbledore always looked like that when he was alone.

In the Floo hearth there were only scattered ashes with no spark of
flame, a magical door that had been shut so solidly as to stop existing.
On the material plane, the great oaken door to the office had been
closed and locked; beyond that door, the Endless Stairs stayed
motionless; at the bottom of those stairs, the gargoyles that blocked
the entrance did not flow, their pseudo-life withdrawn to leave solid
rock.

Then, even as the quill was in the middle of penning a word, even as it
was in the middle of scratching a letter—

The old wizard shot to his feet with a speed that would have shocked
anyone watching, abandoning the quill in mid-letter to fall onto the
parchment; like lightning he spun on the oaken door, his yellow robes
whirling around him and a wand of dread power leaping into his hand—

And as abruptly, the old wizard paused, halting his motion even as the
wand came to bear.

A hand struck upon the oaken door, three times knocking.

More slowly, now, that grim wand went back into the duelling holster
strapped beneath the old wizard’s sleeve. The ancient man moved forward
a few paces, drew himself up into a more formal stance, composed his
face. Nearby upon the desk, the quill moved to the side of the
parchment, as though it had been carefully placed there rather than
dropped in haste; and the parchment itself flipped over to show
blankness.

With a silent twitch of his will, the oaken door swung open.

Hard as stones, the green eyes glared at him.

“I admit that I am impressed, Harry,” the old wizard said quietly. “The
Cloak of Invisibility would have let you evade my lesser means of
vision; but I did not sense my golems step aside, nor the stairs
turning. How did you come here?”

The boy walked into the office, step by deliberate step until the door
closed smoothly behind him. “I can go anywhere I choose, with or without
permission,” the boy said. His voice seemed calm; too calm, perhaps. “I
am in your office because I decided to be here, and to hell with
passwords. You are greatly mistaken, Headmaster Dumbledore, if you think
that I stay in this school because I am a prisoner here. I simply have
not chosen, yet, to leave. Now keeping that in mind, why did you command
your agent, Professor Snape, to break the agreement we made in this
office, that he would not torment any student in her fourth year or
below?”

The old wizard looked at the angry young hero for a long moment. Then,
slowly enough not to alarm the boy, those wizened fingers drew open one
of the manifold drawers of the desk, lifted out a sheet of parchment,
laid it upon the desk. “Fourteen,” the old wizard said. “It is not the
number of all the owls sent last night. Only the owls sent to families
with a seat on the Wizengamot, or families of great wealth, or families
already allied with your foes. Or, in the case of Robert Jugson, all
three; for his father, Lord Jugson, is a Death Eater, and his
grandfather a Death Eater who died by Alastor Moody’s wand. What the
letters said, I do not know, but I can guess. Do you still not
understand, Harry Potter? Each time Hermione Granger won, as you put it,
the danger to her from Slytherin grew again, and yet again. But now the
Slytherins have triumphed over her, easily and safely, without violence
or lasting harm. They have won, and need fight no more…” The old wizard
sighed. “So I had planned. So I had hoped. So it would have been, if the
Defence Professor had not taken it upon himself to intervene. Now the
dispute goes to the Board of Governors, where Severus will seem to
conquer the Defence Professor; but that will not feel the same to the
Slytherins, it will not have been over and finished in a moment, to
their satisfaction.”

The boy advanced further into the room, his head tilting back further to
look up at the half-moon glasses; and somehow it was like the boy was
looking down at the Headmaster, rather than up. “So this Lord Jugson is
a Death Eater?” the boy said softly. “Good. His life is already bought
and paid for, then, and I can do anything I want to him without ethical
problems—”

“Harry!”

The boy’s voice was clear as ice, frozen of purest water from some
untouched spring. “You seem to think that the Light should live in fear
of the darkness. I say it should be the other way around. I’d prefer not
to kill this Lord Jugson, even if he is a Death Eater. But one hour of
brainstorming with the Defence Professor would be plenty of time to come
up with some creative way to wreck him financially, or get him exiled
from magical Britain. That would serve to make the point, I think.”

“I confess,” the old wizard said slowly, “that the thought of ruining a
five-hundred-year-old House, and challenging a Death Eater to fight to
the finish, over a scuffle in a Hogwarts hallway, had not occurred to
me, Harry.” The old wizard lifted a finger to push back his half-moon
glasses from where they had slid a little down his nose, during his
sudden motion earlier. “I dare say it would not occur to Miss Granger
either, nor to Professor McGonagall, nor to Fred and George.”

The boy shrugged. “It wouldn’t be about the hallways,” the boy said. “It
would be justice for his past crimes, and I’d only do it if Jugson made
the first move. The point isn’t to make people scared of me as a wild
card, after all. It’s to teach them that neutrals are perfectly safe
from me, and poking me with a stick is incredibly dangerous.” The boy
smiled in a way that didn’t reach his eyes. “Maybe I’ll buy an ad in the
Daily Prophet, saying that anyone who wants to carry on this dispute
with me will learn the true meaning of Chaos, but anyone who leaves me
alone will be fine.”

“No,” the old wizard said. His voice was deeper now, showing something
of his true age and power. “No, Harry, that must not be. You have not
yet learned the meaning of fighting, what truly happens when foes meet
in battle. And so you dream, as young boys do, of teaching your foes to
fear you. It frightens me that you, at far too young an age, might
already have enough power to make some part of your dreams into reality.
There is no turning of that road which does not lead into darkness,
Harry, none. That is the way of a Dark Lord, for certain.”

The boy hesitated, then, and his eyes flickered to the empty golden
platform where Fawkes sometimes rested his wings. It was a gesture that
few would have caught, but the old wizard knew it very well.

“All right, forget the part about teaching them to fear me,” the boy
said then. His voice was no less hard, but some of the cold had gone
from it. “I still don’t think you should let children get hurt out of
fear of what someone like Lord Jugson might do. Protecting them is the
whole point of your job. If Lord Jugson really does try to get in your
way, then do whatever it takes to stop him. Give me full access to my
vaults, and I’ll take personal responsibility for dealing with any
fallout from banning bullies in Hogwarts, whether it’s Lord Jugson or
anyone else.”

Slowly the old wizard shook his head. “You seem to think, Harry, that I
need merely use my full power, and all foes will be swept aside. You are
wrong. Lucius Malfoy controls Minister Fudge, through the Daily Prophet
he sways all Britain, only by bare margins does he not control enough of
the Board of Governors to oust me from Hogwarts. Amelia Bones and
Bartemius Crouch are allies, but even they would step aside if they saw
us acting wantonly. The world that surrounds you is more fragile than
you seem to believe, and we must walk with greater care. The old
Wizarding War never ended, Harry, it only continued in a different form;
the black king slept, and Lucius Malfoy moved his chess pieces for a
time. Do you think Lucius Malfoy would lightly permit you to take a pawn
of his colour?”

The boy smiled, now with a touch of coldness again. “Okay, I’ll figure
out some way to set it up so that it looks like Lord Jugson betrayed his
own side.”

“Harry—”

“Obstacles mean you get creative, Headmaster. It doesn’t mean you
abandon the children you’re supposed to protect. Let the Light win, and
if trouble comes of it—” The boy shrugged. “Let Light win again.”

“So might phœnixes speak, if they had words,” the old wizard said. “But
you do not understand the phœnix’s price.”

The last two words were spoken in a peculiarly clear voice that seemed
to echo around the office, and then a huge rumbling noise seemed to come
from all around them.

Between the ancient shield on the wall and the Sorting Hat’s hat rack,
the stone of the walls began to flow and move, pouring itself into two
framing columns and revealing a gap between them, an opening that showed
a set of stone stairs leading upward into darkness.

The old wizard turned and strode toward those stairs, and then looked
back at where Harry Potter stood. “Come!” said the old wizard. There was
no twinkle now in those blue eyes. “Since you have already gone so far
as to force your way here uninvited, you may as well go further.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There were no railings on those stone steps, and after the first few
steps Harry drew his wand and cast Lumos. The Headmaster did not look
back, did not seem to be looking downward, as though he had climbed the
steps often enough to have no need of vision.

The boy knew that he should have been curious, or frightened, but there
was no spare brain capacity for that. It was taking all his control not
to let the fury simmering inside him boil over any further than it
already had.

The stairs went on for only a short distance, one straight rising flight
without turns or curves.

At the top was a door of solid metal, looking black in the blue light
cast from Harry’s wand, meaning that the metal itself was either black
or perhaps red.

Albus Dumbledore lifted up his long wand like a brandished symbol, and
again spoke in that strange voice which seemed to echo in Harry’s ears,
as though burning itself into his memory: “Phœnix’s fate.”

That last door opened, and Harry followed Dumbledore inside.

The room beyond seemed to be made of black metal like the door that led
to it. The walls were black, the floor was black. The ceiling above was
black, but for a single globe of crystal that hung down from the ceiling
on a white chain, and shone with a brilliant silver light that looked
like it had been cast in imitation of Patronus light, though you could
tell it wasn’t the real thing.

Within the room were pedestals of black metal, each bearing a moving
picture, or an upright cylinder half-filled with some faintly shining
silver liquid, or a lone small object; a scorched silver necklace, a
crushed hat, an untouched golden wedding ring. Many pedestals bore all
three, the moving picture and the silver liquid and the item. There
seemed to be a good many wizards’ wands upon those pedestals, and many
of those wands were broken, or burned, or looked like the wood had
somehow melted.

It took that long for Harry to realize what he was seeing, and then his
throat suddenly choked; it was like the rage inside him had been hit a
hammer blow, maybe the hardest hammer blow of his entire existence.

“These are not all the fallen of all my wars,” Albus Dumbledore said.
His back was to Harry, only his grey locks and yellowish robes showed.
“Not even nearly all of them. Only my closest friends, and those who
died of my worst decisions, there is something of them here. Those I
regret most of all, this is their place.”

Harry couldn’t count how many pedestals were in the room. It might have
been around a hundred. The room of black metal was not small, and there
was clearly more space left in it for future pedestals.

Albus Dumbledore turned and regarded Harry, the deep blue eyes set like
steel in his brow, but his voice, when he spoke, was calm. “It seems to
me that you know nothing of the phœnix’s price,” Albus Dumbledore said
quietly. “It seems to me that you are not an evil person, but most
terribly ignorant, and confident in your ignorance; as I once was, a
long time ago. Yet I have never heard Fawkes so clearly as you seemed
to, that day. Perhaps I was already too old and full of grief, when my
phœnix came to me. If there is something I do not understand, about how
ready I should be to fight, then tell me of this wisdom.” There was no
anger in the old wizard’s voice; the impact that forced your breath out
like falling off a broomstick was all in the scorched and shattered
wands, gleaming gently in their death beneath the silver light. “Or else
turn and go from this place, but then I wish to hear no more of it.”

Harry didn’t know what to say. There had been nothing in his own life
that was like this, and all the words seemed to fall away. He would find
something to say if he looked, but he couldn’t believe, in that moment,
that the words would be meaningful. You shouldn’t be able to win any
possible argument, just from people having died of your decisions, and
yet even knowing that it felt like there was nothing to be said. That
there was nothing Harry had any right to say.

And Harry almost did turn and go from that place, except for the
understanding which came to him then: that there was probably a part of
Albus Dumbledore which always stood in this place, always, no matter
where he was. And that if you stood in a place like this you could do
anything, lose anything, if it meant that you didn’t have to fight
another time.

One of the pedestals caught Harry’s eye; the photograph on it did not
move, did not smile or wave, it was a Muggle photograph of a woman
looking seriously at the camera, her brown hair twisted into braids of
an ordinary Muggle style that Harry hadn’t seen on any witch. There was
a cylinder of silvery liquid beside the photograph, but no object; no
melted ring or broken wand.

Harry walked forward, slowly, until he stood before the pedestal. “Who
was she?” Harry said, his voice sounding strange in his own ears.

“Her name was Tricia Glasswell,” said Dumbledore. “The mother of a
Muggle-born daughter, who the Death Eaters killed. She was a detective
of the Muggle government, and after that she fed information from the
Muggle authorities to the Order of the Phœnix, until she
was—betrayed—into the hands of Voldemort.” There was a catch in the old
wizard’s voice. “She did not die well, Harry.”

“Did she save lives?” Harry said.

“Yes,” the wizard said quietly. “She did.”

Harry lifted his gaze from the pedestal to look at Dumbledore. “Would
the world be a better place if she hadn’t fought?”

“No, it would not,” said the old wizard. His voice was tired, and
grieving. He seemed more bent now, as though he were folding in on
himself. “I see that you still do not understand. I think you will not
understand until the day that you—oh, Harry. So very long ago, when I
was not much older than you are now, I learned the true face of
violence, and its cost. To fill the air with deadly curses—for any
reason—for any reason, Harry—it is an ill thing, and its nature is
corrupted, as terrible as the darkest rituals. Violence, once begun,
becomes like a Lethifold that strikes at any life near it. I… would
spare you that lesson the way I learned it, Harry.”

Harry looked away from the blue eyes, cast his gaze down at the black
metal of the floor. The Headmaster was trying to tell him something
important, that was clear; and it wasn’t something that Harry thought
was stupid, either.

“There was a Muggle once named Mohandas Gandhi,” Harry said to the
floor. “He thought the government of Muggle Britain shouldn’t rule over
his country. And he refused to fight. He convinced his whole country not
to fight. Instead he told his people to walk up to the British soldiers
and let themselves be struck down, without resisting, and when Britain
couldn’t stand doing that any more, we freed his country. I thought it
was a very beautiful thing, when I read about it, I thought it was
something higher than all the wars that anyone had ever fought with guns
or swords. That they’d really done that, and that it had actually
worked.” Harry drew another breath. “Only then I found out that Gandhi
told his people, during World War II, that if the Nazis invaded they
should use non-violent resistance against them, too. But the Nazis
would’ve just shot everyone in sight. And maybe Winston Churchill always
felt that there should’ve been a better way, some clever way to win
without having to hurt anyone; but he never found it, and so he had to
fight.” Harry looked up at the Headmaster, who was staring at him.
“Winston Churchill was the one who tried to convince the British
government not to give Czechoslovakia to Hitler in exchange for a peace
treaty, that they should fight right away—”

“I recognize the name, Harry,” said Dumbledore. The old wizard’s lips
twitched upward. “Although honesty compels me to say that dear Winston
was never one for pangs of conscience, even after a dozen shots of
Firewhiskey.”

“The point is,” Harry said, after a brief pause to remember exactly who
he was talking to, and fight down the suddenly returning sense that he
was an ignorant child gone insane with audacity who had no right to be
in this room and no right to question Albus Dumbledore about anything,
“the point is, saying violence is evil isn’t an answer. It doesn’t say
when to fight and when not to fight. It’s a hard question and Gandhi
refused to deal with it, and that’s why I lost some of my respect for
him.”

“And your own answer, Harry?” Dumbledore said quietly.

“One answer is that you shouldn’t ever use violence except to stop
violence,” Harry said. “You shouldn’t risk anyone’s life except to save
even more lives. It sounds good when you say it like that. Only the
problem is that if a police officer sees a burglar robbing a house, the
police officer should try to stop the burglar, even though the burglar
might fight back and someone might get hurt or even killed. Even if the
burglar is only trying to steal jewellery, which is just a thing.
Because if nobody so much as inconveniences burglars, there will be more
burglars, and more burglars. And even if they only ever stole things
each time, it would—the fabric of society—” Harry stopped. His thoughts
weren’t as ordered as they usually pretended to be, in this room. He
should have been able to give some perfectly logical exposition in terms
of game theory, should have at least been able to see it that way, but
it was eluding him. Hawks and doves—“Don’t you see, if evil people are
willing to risk violence to get what they want, and good people always
back down because violence is too terrible to risk, it’s—it’s not a good
society to live in, Headmaster! Don’t you realize what all this bullying
is doing to Hogwarts, to Slytherin House most of all?”

“War is too terrible to risk,” the old wizard said. “And yet it will
come. Voldemort is returning. The black chess pieces are gathering.
Severus is one of the most important pieces our own side possesses, in
that war. But our evil Potions Master must, as the saying goes, keep up
appearances. If Severus can pay that keep by hurting the feelings of
children, only their feelings, Harry,” the old wizard’s voice was very
soft, “you would have to be most terribly innocent in the ways of war,
to think he had made a poor bargain. Hard decisions do not look like
that, Harry. They look—like this.” The old wizard did not gesture. He
simply stood where he was, among the pedestals.

“You shouldn’t be Headmaster,” Harry said through the burning in his
throat. “I’m sorry, I’m so sorry, but you shouldn’t try to be a school
principal and run a war at the same time. Hogwarts shouldn’t be part of
this.”

“The children will survive,” the old wizard said with tired old eyes.
“They would not survive Voldemort. Have you wondered why the children of
Hogwarts do not speak much of their parents, Harry? It is because there
is always, within earshot, someone who has lost their mother or father
or both. That is what Voldemort left behind, the last time he came.
Nothing is worth that war beginning again even one day earlier than it
must, or lasting one day longer than it must.” The old wizard did
gesture now, as though to indicate all the shattered wands. “We did not
fight because it seemed righteous to do so! We fought when we had to,
when there was no other way left. That was our answer.”

“Is that why you waited so long to confront Grindelwald?”

Harry had uttered the question without quite thinking—

There was a slow time while the blue eyes searched him.

“Who have you been talking to, Harry?” said the old wizard. “No, do not
answer. I already know.” Dumbledore sighed. “Many have asked me that
question, and always I have turned them aside. Yet in time you must
learn the full truth of that matter. Will you swear never to speak of it
to another, until I give you leave?”

Harry would have liked to be allowed to tell Draco, but—“I swear,” Harry
said.

“Grindelwald possessed an ancient and terrible device,” said Dumbledore.
“While he held it, I could not break his defence. In our duel I could
not win, only fight him for long hours until he fell in exhaustion; and
I would have died of it afterwards, if not for Fawkes. But while his
Muggle allies yet made blood sacrifice to sustain him, Grindelwald would
not have fallen. He was, during that time, truly invincible. Of that
grim device which Grindelwald held, none must know, none must suspect,
there must be not a single hint. And therefore you must not speak of it,
and I will say no more for now. That is all, Harry. There is no moral to
it, and no wisdom. That is all there is.”

Harry slowly nodded. It wasn’t entirely implausible, by the standards of
magic…

“And then,” Dumbledore’s voice went on, even quieter, almost as though
he were speaking to himself, “since it was I who felled him, they obeyed
me when I said he should not die, though they cried by the thousands for
his blood. So he was imprisoned in Nurmengard, in the prison that he
built, and he abides there until this day. I went to that duel without
any intent to kill him, Harry. Because, you see, I had tried to kill
Grindelwald once before, a long time ago, and that… that was… it proved
to be… a mistake, Harry…” The old wizard was staring now at his long
dark-grey wand where he held it in both hands, as though it were a
crystal ball out of Muggle fantasy, a scrying pool within which answers
could be found. “And I thought, then… I thought that I should never
kill. And then came Voldemort.”

The old wizard looked back up at Harry, and said, in a hoarse voice, “He
is not like Grindelwald, Harry. There is nothing human left in him. Him
you must destroy. You must not hesitate, when the time comes. To him
alone, of all the creatures in this world, you must show no mercy; and
when you are done you must forget it, forget that you ever did such a
thing, and go back to living. Save your fury for that, and that alone.”

In that office there was silence.

It lasted for some many long seconds, and finally was broken by a single
question.

“Are there Dementors in Nurmengard?”

“What?” said the old wizard. “No! I would not have done that even to
him—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old wizard stared at the young boy, who had straightened, and his
face changed.

“In other words,” the boy said, as though talking to himself without any
other people in the room, “it’s already known how to keep powerful Dark
Wizards in prison, without using Dementors. People know they know that.”

“Harry…?”

“No,” the boy said. The boy looked up, and his eyes were blazing like
green fire. “I do not accept your answer, Headmaster. Fawkes gave me a
mission, and I know now why Fawkes gave that mission to me, and not to
you. You are willing to accept balances of power where the bad guys end
up winning. I am not.”

“That too is not an answer,” the old wizard said; his face showed
nothing of his hurt, he had long practice in concealing pain. “Refusing
to accept something does not change it. I wonder now if you are simply
too young to understand this matter, Harry, despite your outward airs;
only in children’s fantasies can all battles be won, and not a single
evil tolerated.”

“And that’s why I can destroy Dementors and you can’t,” said the boy.
“Because I believe that the darkness can be broken.”

The old wizard’s breath stopped in his throat.

“The phœnix’s price isn’t inevitable,” the boy said. “It’s not part of
some deep balance built into the universe. It’s just the parts of the
problem where you haven’t figured out yet how to cheat.”

The old wizard’s lips parted, and no words came forth.

Silver light falling on shattered wands.

“Fawkes gave me a mission,” the boy repeated, “and I will carry out that
mission if I must break the entire Ministry to do it. That’s the part of
the answer that you’re missing. You don’t stop and say, oh well, guess I
can’t possibly figure out any way to stop bullying in Hogwarts, and
leave it at that. You just keep looking until you figure out how to do
it. If that requires breaking Lucius Malfoy’s entire conspiracy, fine.”

“And the true fight, the fight against Voldemort?” the old wizard said
in an unsteady voice. “What will you do to win that, Harry? Will you
break the whole world? Even if some day you gain such power, you are not
yet beyond prices, and perhaps you never will be! For you to act this
way now is nothing short of madness!”

“I asked Professor Quirrell why he’d laughed,” the boy said evenly,
“after he awarded Hermione those hundred points. And Professor Quirrell
said, these aren’t his exact words, but it’s pretty much what he said,
that he’d found it tremendously amusing that the great and good Albus
Dumbledore had been sitting there doing nothing as this poor innocent
girl begged for help, while he had been the one to defend her. And he
told me then that by the time good and moral people were done tying
themselves up in knots, what they usually did was nothing; or, if they
did act, you could hardly tell them apart from the people called bad.
Whereas he could help innocent girls any time he felt like it, because
he wasn’t a good person. And that I ought to remember that, any time I
considered growing up to be good.”

The old wizard did not show the force of the blow. Only a slight
widening of his eyes would have betrayed it, if you had been watching
him very closely.

“Don’t worry, Headmaster,” said the boy. “I haven’t got my wires
crossed. I know that I’m supposed to learn goodness from Hermione and
Fawkes, not from Professor Quirrell and you. Which brings me to the
actual reason why I came here. Hermione’s time is too valuable to waste
in detentions. Professor Snape will revoke it, claiming that I
blackmailed him.”

After a hesitation the old wizard nodded his head, the silver beard
swaying slowly beneath. “That would not be best for her, Harry,” the old
wizard said. “But the detention can be put down as being served with
Professor Binns, and you and she can study together in his classroom.”

“Fine,” the boy said. “I think that was all the business we had
together, in the end. You may expect, the next time you seem to be
working on the side of the bad guys or letting them win, that I will do
whatever I think Fawkes would tell me to, regardless of how much trouble
comes of it. I hope we’re both clear on that.”

Without another word, the boy turned and walked out of the room, through
the open door of black metal, the words “Lumos!” and the light of his
wand following a moment later.

The old wizard stood there silent, silent amid the ruins of the lives
which his own life had left behind. His wrinkled hand rose, shaking, to
touch at his half-moon glasses—

The boy poked his head back in. “Would you mind switching on the stairs,
Headmaster? I’d rather not go through all the work again to leave the
same way I came.”

“Go, Harry Potter,” the old wizard said. “The stairs will receive you.”

(Some time later, an earlier version of Harry, who had invisibly waited
next to the gargoyles since 9 p.m., followed the Deputy Headmistress
through the opening that parted for her, stood quietly behind her on the
turning stairs until they came to the top, and then, still under the
Cloak, spun his Time-Turner thrice.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Professor Quirrell and—

In a shadowy clearing the Defence Professor waited, his back leant
negligently against the rough grey bark of a towering beech tree as yet
bare of leaves in the late March days, so that its trunk and crown
seemed like a pale arm reaching up from the ground and exploding into a
hand of a thousand fingers. Around the Defence Professor and above him
were branches so dense that even in the earliest spring, with few trees
so much as budding, you could have hardly seen the sky from the ground.
The strands of the wooden net crossed and proliferated so many times
that if you were on a broomstick above, searching for someone below, you
would have found it easier to follow your ears than your eyes. Nor would
it have helped that it was almost dark amid the prohibited woods, the
unseen sun almost set, so that only a few glints of fading sunlight
illuminated the tops of the tallest trees.

Then came the faintest sound of footsteps, almost inaudible even on the
forest ground; the gait of a man accustomed to passing unseen. No twig
snapped, nor leaf rustled—

“Good afternoon,” said Professor Quirrell. The Defence Professor did not
trouble to move his eyes, or his hands from where they rested
negligently at his side.

A figure clad in a black cloak shimmered into existence, his head
turning to look left and then right. In the figure’s right hand, gripped
low, was a wand of wood so grey it was almost silver.

“I do not know why you wished to meet here of all places,” said Severus
Snape, his voice cool.

“Oh,” Professor Quirrell said idly, as though the whole matter was of
the least importance, “I thought you would prefer privacy. The walls of
Hogwarts have ears, and you would not wish the Headmaster to know of
your role in yesterday’s affair, would you?”

The March chill seemed to grow deeper, the temperature further fall. “I
don’t know what you’re talking about,” the Potions Master said icily.

“You know perfectly well what we’re talking about,” said Professor
Quirrell in an amused voice. “Really, my good Professor, you should not
meddle in the affairs of idiots unless you are ready to defend yourself
upon the instant from all their violence.” (The Defence Professor’s
hands still lay relaxed and open at his side.) “And yet none of those
idiots seem to remember the sight of you falling, nor do the young
ladies recall your presence. Which raises the fascinating question of
why you would go to the extraordinary length, I dare say the desperate
length, of casting fifty-two Memory Charms.” Professor Quirrell tilted
his head. “Would you fear so much the opinions of mere students? I think
not. Would you dread the matter becoming known to your good friend, Lord
Malfoy? But those fools, upon the very spot, invented a quite
satisfactory excuse for your presence. No, there is only one person who
holds so much power over you, and who would be most perturbed to find
you executing any plot without his knowledge. Your true and hidden
master, Albus Dumbledore.”

“What?” hissed the Potions Master, the anger plain upon his face.

“But now, it seems, you are moving on your own; and so I find myself
most intrigued as to what you could possibly be doing, and why.” The
Defence Professor regarded the black-clad silhouette of the Potions
Master with the scrutiny a man might give an exceptionally interesting
bug, even if it was still ultimately just a bug.

“I am no servant of Dumbledore’s,” the Potions Master said coldly.

“Really? What astonishing news.” The Defence Professor smiled slightly.
“Do tell me all about it.”

There was a long pause. From some tree an owl hooted, the sound huge in
the silence; neither man started or flinched.

“You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,” Severus Snape said, his
voice very soft.

“I don’t?” said Professor Quirrell. “How would you know?”

“On the other hand,” the Potions Master continued, voice still soft, “my
friends enjoy many advantages.”

The man leaning against the grey bark raised his eyebrows. “Such as?”

“There is much that I know of this school,” said the Potions Master.
“Things you might not think I knew.”

There was an expectant pause.

“How incredibly fascinating,” said Professor Quirrell. The man was
examining his fingernails with a bored look. “Do go on.”

“I know you have been… investigating… the third-floor corridor—”

“You know nothing of the sort.” The man’s back straightened against the
wood. “Do not bluff against me, Severus Snape; I find it annoying, and
you are in no position to annoy me. A single glance would tell any
competent wizard that the Headmaster has laced that corridor with a
ridiculous quantity of wards and webs, triggers and tripsigns. And more:
there are Charms laid there of ancient power, magical constructs of
which I have heard not even rumours, techniques that must have been
disgorged from the hoarded lore of Flamel himself. Even
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named would have had trouble passing those without
notice.” Professor Quirrell tapped a thoughtful finger on his cheek.
“And for the actual lock, a Colloportus laid on an ordinary doorknob,
cast so weakly that it could not have kept out Miss Granger on the day
she entered Hogwarts. Never before in my existence have I encountered
such a blatant trap.” Now the Defence Professor narrowed his eyes. “I
know of no-one left in the world against whom such fantastic feats of
detection would serve any useful purpose. If there is some wizard
possessed of ancient lore, of whom I know nothing, against whom this
trap is set—you may trade that information for as much silence as you
like, my dear Professor, and a good serving of my favour left over
afterwards.”

You could have sworn that Professor Quirrell was watching Severus Snape
with keen interest. Not the faintest trace of a smile crossed the man’s
lips.

There was another long silence in the clearing.

“I do not know who Dumbledore fears,” Snape said. “But I know what bait
he has set out, and somewhat of how it is truly guarded—”

“As to that,” said Professor Quirrell, sounding bored again, “I stole it
months ago, and left a fake in its place. But thank you kindly for
asking.”

“You’re lying,” said Severus Snape after a pause.

“Yes, I am.” Professor Quirrell leaned back against the grey wood again,
his eyes drifting up to the dense net of branches, the falling night
scarcely visible between the complex crossings. “I simply wished to
learn whether you would challenge me on it, since you are pretending to
know so little.” The Defence Professor smiled to himself.

The Potions Master looked like he was about to choke on his own fury.
“What do you want?”

“Nothing, really,” said the Defence Professor, continuing to gaze at the
forest ceiling. “I was only curious. I suppose I shall just watch and
see where your plotting goes, and meanwhile I will say nothing to the
Headmaster—so long as you are willing to do me a favour now and then, of
course.” A dry smile crossed the face. “You are dismissed for now,
Severus Snape. Though I wouldn’t mind having another little chat soon,
if you’re willing to speak with me honestly of where your loyalties lie.
And I do mean honestly, not the false faces you’ve shown today. You
might find you have more allies than you thought. Take some time to
think it over, my friend.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Draco Malfoy and—

A rainbow hemisphere, a dome of solid force with little chromaticity of
its own which sent back the infringing light in splintered reflections,
iridescent in many colours, as it fractured the shine of the
many-splendoured chandeliers of the Slytherin common room.

Sheltered beneath the rainbow hemisphere, the terrified face of a young
witch who had never fought bullies, who had not joined any of Professor
Quirrell’s armies, who was getting Acceptable marks at best in her
Defence class, who could not have cast a Prismatic Barrier even to save
her own life.

“Oh, stop it,” said Draco Malfoy, making his voice sound bored despite
the sweat that had broken out underneath his robes, as he kept his wand
pointed at the barrier that was sheltering Millicent Bulstrode.

He couldn’t remember making the decision, there’d just been the two
older boys about to hex Millicent, the common room silently staring, and
then Draco’s hand had just drawn his wand and cast the barrier, leaving
his heart to pump itself full of shocked adrenaline while his poor sad
brain frantically racked itself for explanations—

The two older boys were straightening up from where they’d been looming
over Millicent, turning to Draco, looking at him with a mixture of shock
and anger. Gregory and Vincent beside him had already drawn their own
wands, but weren’t pointing them. All three of them together couldn’t
have won, anyway.

But the older boys wouldn’t hex him. Nobody could possibly be stupid
enough to hex the next Lord Malfoy.

It wasn’t fear of being hexed that was making Draco sweat beneath his
robes, as he desperately hoped the beads of water weren’t visible on his
forehead.

Draco was sweating because of the dawning and sickening certainty that
even if he got away with this now, if he kept down this path, there
would come a time when it would all come crashing down; and then he
might not be the next Lord Malfoy any more.

“Mr Malfoy,” said the oldest-looking boy. “Why are you protecting her?”

“So you’ve located the mistress of the conspiracy,” Draco said with a
Number Two Sneer, “and it’s, let me get this straight now, a first-year
girl named Millicent Bulstrode. She’s just a conduit, you nitwit!”

“So?” demanded the older boy. “She still helped them!”

Draco lifted his wand and the Prismatic Sphere winked out. Still talking
in a bored voice, Draco said, “Did you know what you were doing,
Miss Bulstrode?”

“N-no,” Millicent stammered from where she was still sitting at her
desk.

“Did you know where the Slytherin messages you were passing on were
going to?”

“No!” said Millicent.

“Thank you,” Draco said. “All of you please leave her alone, she’s just
a pawn. Miss Bulstrode, you may consider the favour you did me in
February to have been repaid.” And Draco turned back to his Potions
homework, hoping to Merlin and back again that Millicent didn’t say
anything incredibly stupid like ‘What favour?’—

“Then why,” a voice said clearly from across the room, “did those
witches go where a note from Millicent told them to go?”

Sweating even more, Draco lifted his head again to look at where
Randolph Lee had spoken. “What did the fake note say exactly?” said
Draco. “Was it, ‘I command you to go forth in the name of the Dark Lady
Bulstrode’ or ‘Please meet me here, sincerely Millicent?’”

Randolph Lee opened his mouth, hesitated for a fractional second—

“I thought so,” said Draco. “That wasn’t a very good test, Mr Lee, it—it
can—” A frantic, nerve-racking moment while he figured out how to say it
without using Harry-words like false positive. “It can get the witches
to go there if any of them is just friends with Millicent.”

As though the matter had been entirely settled, Draco looked down again
at his Potions homework, ignoring (except for the feeling of sick dread
in his stomach) the whispers from around the room.

It was only out of the corner of his eye that he caught Gregory staring
at him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Draco’s eyes rested on his Astronomy homework, but he couldn’t make his
mind focus there. If you were trying not to think about things Harry
Potter had said, pretty much the worst possible thing you could do was
look at your textbook’s pictures of the night sky, and try to remember
what you weren’t supposed to know about how the planets wandered.
Astronomy, a noble and prestigious art, a sign of learning and
knowledge; only Muggles possessed secret modern artifacts which could do
it a million billion times better using methods that Harry had tried to
explain and which Draco still couldn’t begin to understand except that
apparently it didn’t even take magic to make things do Arithmancy.

Draco looked at the pictures of constellations, and wondered if it was
like this in the other Houses, if people were always threatening each
other in Ravenclaw.

Harry Potter had told him once that soldiers on a battlefield didn’t
really fight for their country. Patriotism might get them to the
battlefield in the first place, but once they were there, they fought to
protect each other, the friends they’d trained with who were right in
front of them. And Harry had observed, and Draco had known that it was
true, that you couldn’t use loyalty to a leader to power a Patronus
Charm, it wasn’t quite the right kind of warm and happy thought. But
thinking of protecting someone beside you—

That, Harry Potter had said thoughtfully, was probably why the Death
Eaters had fallen apart the moment the Dark Lord had departed. They
hadn’t been warm enough to each other.

You could recruit a group that included Bellatrix Black and Amycus
Carrow alongside Lord Malfoy and Mr Macnair, and keep them in line with
the Cruciatus Curse. But the instant the master of the Dark Mark was
gone, you didn’t have an army any more, you had a circle of
acquaintances. That was why Father had failed. It hadn’t even really
been his fault. There’d been nothing Father could have done, after
inheriting Death Eaters who weren’t really friends with each other.

And even though it was Slytherin House he was supposed to
defend—Slytherin House which he and Harry had formed a pact to
save—sometimes Draco couldn’t help but think that it was just less
wearisome when he was leading army practices. When he was working with
students from the other three Houses that weren’t Slytherin. Once you
saw and named the problems, you couldn’t stop seeing them, it just got
more annoying every day.

“Mr Malfoy?” said the voice of Gregory Goyle, from where he was lying on
the floor beside Draco’s desk, in the small but private bedroom; Gregory
was doing his Transfiguration homework, on which he often needed help.

Any distraction was welcome at this point. “Yes?” said Draco.

“You weren’t really plotting against Granger at all,” said Gregory.
“Were you?”

The sensation spreading through Draco’s stomach felt just like Gregory’s
voice sounded, sickened and afraid.

“You actually were helping Granger, that day you picked her up off the
floor,” said Gregory. “And before, that time you kept her from falling
off the roof. You helped a mudblood—”

“Yeah, right,” said Draco sarcastically, without the slightest
hesitation or delay, looking back down at his Astronomy homework like he
wasn’t the least bit nervous. It was all happening the way Draco had
feared it would, but at least that meant he’d played this conversation
in his head over and over, coming up with the right opening gambit.
“Come on, Gregory, you’ve duelled General Granger, you know how strong
her spells are. Like a real Muggle-spawn is going to be more powerful
than you, more powerful than Theodore, more powerful than every single
pureblood in our whole school year except me? Don’t you actually believe
in anything Father says? She’s adopted. Her parents died in the war and
someone stuck her with a couple of Muggles to hide her. No way is
General Granger a real mudblood.”

A slow pulse of silence through Draco’s bedroom. Draco wanted to know,
needed to know what look was on Gregory’s face. But he couldn’t look up
from his desk, not yet, not until Gregory spoke first.

And then—

“Is that what Harry Potter said to you?” said Gregory.

The voice wavered, and broke. When Draco looked up from his homework, he
saw that tears were leaking out of Gregory’s eyes.

Apparently that hadn’t worked.

“I don’t know what to do,” Gregory said in a whisper. “I don’t know what
to do now, Mr Malfoy. Your father isn’t—when he finds out—he’s not going
to like it, Mr Malfoy!”

It’s not your job to decide what Father will like, Goyle—

Draco could hear the words in his head; they sounded in Father’s voice,
with the same sternness. It was the sort of thing Father had told him to
say, if Vincent or Gregory ever questioned him; and if that didn’t work
he was to hex them. They were not equal friends, Father had said, and he
wasn’t ever to forget it. Draco was in charge, they were his servants,
and if Draco couldn’t keep it that way then he wasn’t fit to inherit
House Malfoy…

“It’s all right, Gregory,” Draco said, as gently as he could. “All
you’ve got to do is worry about protecting me. Nobody’s going to blame
you for following my orders, not my father, not yours.” Putting all the
warmth he could into his voice, like trying to cast a Patronus Charm.
“And anyway, the next war isn’t going to be the same as the last one.
House Malfoy was around long before the Dark Lord, and not every Lord
Malfoy does the same thing. Father knows that.”

“Does he?” said Gregory in trembling voice. “Does he really?”

Draco nodded. “Professor Quirrell knows it too,” said Draco. “That’s
what the armies are about. The Defence Professor’s right, when the next
war comes, Father won’t be able to unite the whole country, they’ll
remember the last war. But anyone who’s fought in Professor Quirrell’s
armies will remember who the strongest generals were, they’ll know who’s
worthy to lead them. They’ll proclaim Harry Potter their Lord, and I’ll
be his right hand, and House Malfoy will come out on top, like always.
People might even turn to me, if Potter isn’t there, so long as they
think I’m trustworthy. That’s what I’m setting up now. Father will
understand.”

Gregory reached up and wiped his eyes, looking down again at his
Transfiguration homework. “Okay,” Gregory said in a shaky voice. “If you
say so, Mr Malfoy.”

Draco nodded again, ignoring the hollow feeling inside himself at the
lies he’d just told his friend, and turned back to the stars.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aftermath: Hermione Granger and—

Being invisible should’ve been more interesting than this, the corridors
of Hogwarts should have been outlined in strange colours or something.
But actually, Hermione thought, being under Harry’s invisibility cloak
was exactly like not being under an invisibility cloak, except for the
cloak part. When you pulled the veil of soft black cloth down from the
hood and over your face, you couldn’t even see it stretching in front of
you, and afterwards it didn’t seem to impede your breathing. And the
world looked just the same, except that when you walked past things of
metal, you didn’t see any small reflections of yourself. Portraits never
looked at you, only did whatever strange things they did when they were
alone. Hermione hadn’t tried walking past a mirror yet, she wasn’t sure
she wanted to. Most of all, there was no you any more as you walked
around, no hands, no feet, just a changing point of view. It was an
unnerving feeling, not so much of being invisible as of not existing.

Harry hadn’t questioned her at all, she’d just got out the word
‘invisibility’ and then Harry was drawing his invisibility cloak from
his pouch. She hadn’t even been given a chance to explain about her
extremely secret meeting with Daphne and Millicent Bulstrode, or that
she thought it would help protect the other girls, Harry had just handed
over what was probably a Deathly Hallow. If you were fair, and she did
try to be fair, she had to admit that sometimes Harry could be a true,
true friend.

The secret meeting itself had been a total failure.

Millicent had claimed to be a seer.

Hermione had carefully explained to Millicent and Daphne at considerable
length that this could not possibly be true.

She and Harry had looked up Divination early on in their research; Harry
had insisted that they read everything they could find about prophecies
that wasn’t in the Restricted Section. As Harry had observed, it would
save a lot of effort if they could just get a seer to prophesy
everything they would figure out thirty-five years later. (Or to put it
in Harry’s terms, any means of obtaining information transmitted from
the distant future was potentially an instant global victory condition.)

But, as Hermione had explained to Millicent, prophesying wasn’t
controllable, there was no way to ask for a prophecy about anything in
particular. Instead (the books had said) there was a sort of pressure
that built up in Time, when some huge event was trying to happen, or
stop itself from happening. And seers were like weak points that let out
the pressure, when the right listener was nearby. So prophecies were
only about big, important things, because only that generated enough
pressure; and you almost never got more than one seer saying the same
thing, because afterwards the pressure was gone. And, as Hermione had
further explained to Millicent, the seers themselves didn’t remember
their prophecies, because the message wasn’t for them. And the messages
would come out in riddles, and only someone who heard the prophecy in
the seer’s original voice would hear all the meaning that was in the
riddle. There was no possible way that Millicent could just give out a
prophecy any time she wanted, about school bullies, and then remember
it, and if she had it would’ve come out as ‘the skeleton is the key’ and
not ‘Susan Bones has to be there’.

Millicent had been looking rather frightened at this point, so Hermione
had relaxed her fists where they’d been jammed on her hips, calmed
herself down, and stated carefully that she was glad Millicent had
helped them, but they had sometimes walked into traps following what
Millicent said, and so Hermione really did want to know where the
messages had actually come from.

And Millicent had said in a small voice:

But, but she told me that she was a seer…

Hermione had told Daphne not to press it, after Millicent had refused to
give up her source. It wasn’t just that Hermione had felt awful about
the scared look on Millicent’s face. It was that Hermione had a strong
feeling that if they did find the person who’d been telling Millicent
things, why, they would turn out to just be finding envelopes under
their pillow in the morning.

She was getting that same despairing feeling she’d had in the battle
before Christmas, looking at Zabini’s charts with all the coloured lines
and boxes and… and she had only just now realized what it meant that
Zabini had been the one showing her that chart.

Even for a Ravenclaw, she felt, there was such a thing as having your
life get overly complicated.

Hermione began ascending a short spiral of yellow marble steps
protruding from a central spine, a poorly-kept “secret” staircase that
was actually one of the fastest ways from the Slytherin dungeons to the
Ravenclaw tower, but which only witches could traverse. (Why girls in
particular needed a quick way to move between Ravenclaw and Slytherin
was something Hermione found a bit puzzling.) At the top of the
staircase, now that she was away from Slytherin, Hermione stopped and
took off Harry’s invisibility cloak.

After her pouch had swallowed the cloak, Hermione turned right and
started to walk down a short passageway, now automatically keeping an
eye out in all directions without really thinking about it, and her
constantly-scanning eyes glanced into a shadowy alcove—

(fleeting disorientation)

—and then a rush of shock and fear hit her like a Stunning Hex over her
whole body, she found that without any thought or any conscious decision
her wand had leaped into her hand and was already pointed at…

…a black cloak so wide and billowing that it was impossible to determine
whether the figure beneath was male or female, and atop the cloak a
broad-brimmed black hat; and a black mist seemed to gather beneath it
and obscure the face of whoever or whatever might lie beneath.

“Hello again, Hermione,” whispered a sibilant voice from beneath the
black hat, from behind the black mist.

Hermione’s heart was already pounding hugely inside her chest, her
witch’s robes felt already sweat-dampened against her skin, there was a
taste of fear already in her mouth; she didn’t know why she was so
suddenly filled up with adrenaline but her hand gripped harder on her
wand. “Who are you?” Hermione demanded.

The hat tilted slightly; the whispering voice, when it came forth from
the black mist, sounded dry as dust. “The last ally,” spoke the sibilant
whisper. “The one who finally answers, when no other will answer you. I
am perhaps the only true friend you have in all Hogwarts, Hermione. For
you have now seen how the others stayed silent when you were in need—”

“What’s your name?”

The black cloak rotated slightly, back and forth, it didn’t look like
shoulders shrugging, but it conveyed a shrug. “That is the riddle, young
Ravenclaw. Until you solve it, you may call me whatever you wish.”

She could feel her palm already sweaty and was thankful for the spiral
grooves on her wand that helped her hand keep a steady grip on the wood.
“Well, Mister Incredibly Suspicious Person,” Hermione said, “what do you
want with me?”

“That is the wrong question,” came the whisper from black mist. “You
should ask, rather, what I can offer you.”

“No,” the young girl said quite steadily, “I don’t think I should be
asking that, actually.”

A high-pitched chuckle from behind the black mist. “Not power,”
whispered the voice, “not wealth, you care little for such things, do
you, young Ravenclaw? Knowledge. That is what I possess. I know what is
unfolding within this school, all the hidden plans and players, the
answers of the riddle. I know the true reason for the coldness you see
in Harry Potter’s eyes. I know the true nature of Professor Quirrell’s
mysterious illness. I know who Dumbledore truly fears.”

“Good for you,” said Hermione Granger. “But do you know how many licks
it takes to get to the biscuit centre of a Twix?”

The black mist seemed to darken slightly, the voice sounded lower when
it spoke, disappointed. “So you are not even curious, young Ravenclaw,
about the truths behind the lies?”

“One hundred and eighty-seven,” she said. “I tried it once and that’s
how many it came out to.” Her hand was almost slipping on her wand,
there was a sense of fatigue in her fingers like she’d been holding the
wand for hours instead of minutes—

The voice hissed, “Professor Snape is a hidden Death Eater.”

Hermione almost dropped her wand.

“Ah,” the voice whispered in satisfaction. “I thought that might
interest you. So, Hermione. Is there anything else you would like to
know about your enemies, or those you call friends?”

She stared up at the black mist that topped the towering black cloak,
frantically trying to order her thoughts. Professor Snape was a Death
Eater? Who would tell her something like that, why, what was going on?
“That’s—” Hermione said. Her voice was quavering. “That’s extremely
serious business, if it’s really true. Why are you telling something
like that to me, and not to Headmaster Dumbledore?”

“Dumbledore did nothing to stop Snape,” the black mist whispered. “You
saw it, Hermione. The rot at Hogwarts begins at the top. Everything that
is wrong with this school, it all begins with the mad Headmaster. You
alone dared to criticise him for it—and therefore I speak to you.”

“And have you also spoken to Harry Potter, then?” Hermione said, keeping
her voice as even as she could. If this was his helpful ghost—

The black mist darkened and lightened, like a shake of the head. “I am
frightened of Harry Potter,” it whispered. “Of the coldness in his eyes,
of the darkness that grows behind them. Harry Potter is a killer, and
anyone who is an obstacle to him will die. Even you, Hermione Granger,
if you dare truly oppose him, the darkness behind his eyes will reach
out and destroy you. This I know.”

“Then you don’t know half of what you pretend to know,” Hermione said,
her voice a little firmer. “I’m scared of Harry too. But not because of
what he might ever do to me. I’m scared of what he might do to protect
me—”

“Wrong.” The whisper was flat, and hard, as if to brook no possibility
of denial. “Harry Potter will turn against you in time, Hermione, when
the darkness takes him fully. He will not shed a tear, he will not even
notice, on the day his footsteps finally crush you underneath.”

“Double wrong!” she said back in a rising voice, even though there were
chills going down her spine. One of Harry’s phrases came to her. “Just
what do you think you know, and how do you think you know it, anyway?”

“Time—” The voice seemed to catch itself. “Time enough for that later.
For now, for today, indeed Harry Potter is not your enemy. And yet you
are in gravest danger.”

“I can believe that,” said Hermione Granger. She desperately wanted to
shift her wand to her other hand, she felt like she needed to grab her
right arm just to keep it up, her head ached like she’d been staring at
the black mist for days; she didn’t know why she’d tired so quickly.

“Lucius Malfoy has taken notice of you, Hermione.” The whisper had
risen, departed from its tonelessness, taken on a note of audible
concern. “You have humiliated Slytherin House, you have defeated his son
in battle. Even before then you were an embarrassment to all who stand
with the Death Eaters; for you are a Muggle-born and yet you possess a
power of wizardry greater than any pureblood. And now you are becoming
known, the eyes of the world on you. Lucius Malfoy seeks to crush you,
Hermione, to hurt you and perhaps even kill you, and he has the means to
do it!” The whisper had grown urgent.

There was a pause.

“Is that all?” Hermione said. If she was ex-Colonel Zabini or Harry
Potter, she’d probably be asking clever questions to gather more
information; but her mind felt slow and fatigued. She really needed to
get out of here and go lie down for a while.

“You don’t believe me,” the whisper said, softer and sadder now. “Why
not, Hermione? I am trying to help you.”

Hermione took a step backward, away from the shadowy alcove.

“Why not, Hermione?” demanded the voice, rising to a hiss. “You owe me
that much! Tell me, and then—” The voice caught, and came back quieter.
“And then you can go, I suppose. Only tell me—why—”

Maybe she shouldn’t’ve answered; maybe she should’ve just turned and
fled, or better yet, cast a Prismatic Wall first and then screamed at
the top of her lungs as she ran; but it was the note of real pain in the
voice that caught her, and so she answered.

“Because you look incredibly dark and scary and suspicious,” Hermione
said, keeping her voice polite, as her wand stayed level on the towering
black cloak and the faceless black mist.

“That’s all?” whispered the voice incredulously. Sadness seemed to
infuse it. “I hoped for better from you, Hermione. Surely such a
Ravenclaw as you, the most intelligent Ravenclaw to grace Hogwarts in a
generation, knows that appearances can be misleading.”

“Oh, I know it,” said Hermione. She took another step back, her tired
fingers tightening on the wand. “But the thing that people forget
sometimes, is that even though appearances can be misleading, they’re
usually not.”

There was a pause.

“You are the clever one,” said the voice, and the black mist evaporated
away, no longer obscuring; she saw the face beneath, and recognition
sent a jolt of terrified adrenaline bursting through her—

(fleeting disorientation)

—and then a rush of shock and fear hit her like a Stunning Hex over her
whole body, she found that without any thought or any conscious decision
her wand had leaped into her hand and was already pointed at…

…a shining lady, her long white dress billowing about her as though in
invisible winds; neither her hands nor her feet were visible, her face
hidden beneath a white veil; and she was glowing all over, not like a
ghost, not transparent, just surrounded by soft white light.

Hermione stared open-mouthed at the gentle sight, wondering why her
heart was already hammering, and why she felt so scared.

“Hello again, Hermione,” the kindly whisper emanated from the white glow
behind the veil. “I’ve been sent to help you, so please don’t be afraid.
I am your servant in all things; for you, my Lady, are the bearer of a
most marvellous destiny—”

…

…

…

78. Taboo Trade-offs Prelude: Cheating

IT was Saturday, on the 4th of April, in the year 1992.

Mr and Mrs Davis looked rather nervous, as they sat in a certain special
section of the Hogwarts Quidditch stands—though today the cushioned
benches did not look upon flying broomsticks, but rather viewed a
gigantic square of something like parchment; a great white blankness
soon to flicker with windows into grass and soldiers. For now it showed
only the reflected dull grey colour of the surrounding overcast skies.
(Looking rather stormy, though the weather-wizards had promised that the
rain wouldn’t break before nightfall.)

Ordinarily it was the ancient tradition of Hogwarts that mere parents
were to Stay Out—for much the same reason that impatient children are
told to get out of the kitchen and not meddle in the cook’s affairs. The
only reason for a parent-teacher conference was if a teacher felt that a
parent wasn’t shaping up properly. It took an exceptional circumstance
to make the Hogwarts administration feel that it had to justify itself
to you. On any given occasion, generally speaking, the Hogwarts
administration was backed up by eight hundred years of distinguished
history and you were not.

Thus it had been with some trepidation that Mr and Mrs Davis had
insisted on an audience with Deputy Headmistress McGonagall. It was hard
to muster a proper sense of indignation when you were confronting the
same dignified witch who, twelve years and four months earlier, had
given both of you two weeks’ detention after catching you in the act of
conceiving Tracey.

On the other hand, Mr and Mrs Davis’ courage had been helped by angrily
waving about a copy of The Quibbler whose headline showed, in bright
bold text for all the world to see:

Pacts With Potter?
Bones, Davis, Granger
In Love Rectangle Of Fear

And so Mr and Mrs Davis had argued their way into the Faculty Box of the
Hogwarts Quidditch stands, where they were now ensconced with an
excellent view of Professor Quirrell’s enchanted screens, so that the
two of them could see for themselves “Just what the Fiddly-Snocks has
been going on in this school, if you’ll pardon the expression, Deputy
Headmistress McGonagall!”

Seated to the left of Mr Davis was another concerned parent, a
white-haired man in elegant black robes of unmatchable quality, one
Lucius Malfoy, political leader of the strongest faction of the
Wizengamot.

To the left of Lord Malfoy, a sneeringly aristocratic man with a scarred
face who had been introduced to them as Lord Jugson.

Then an elderly but sharp-eyed fellow named Charles Nott, rumoured to be
nearly as wealthy as Lord Malfoy, seated on Lord Jugson’s left.

On the right of Mrs Davis, one would find the comely Lady and yet
handsomer Lord of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Greengrass. Young
they were as wizards counted age, garbed in grey silken robes set with
tiny dark emeralds embroidered into the shape of grass blades. The Lady
Greengrass was considered a key swing vote on the Wizengamot, her own
mother having retired from the body with surprising speed. Her charming
husband, though his family was not noble or wealthy of itself, had taken
a seat on the Hogwarts Board of Governors.

To their right, a square-jawed and incredibly tough-looking old witch,
who had shaken hands with Mr and Mrs Davis without the slightest hint of
condescension. This was Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of
Magical Law Enforcement.

To Amelia’s right was an oldish woman who had set the fashion scene of
magical Britain on its ear by integrating a live vulture into her hat,
one Augusta Longbottom. Though she was not addressed as Lady, Madam
Longbottom would exercise the full rights of the Longbottom family for
so long as their last scion had yet to attain his majority, and she was
considered a prominent figure in a minority faction of the Wizengamot.

At the side of Madam Longbottom was seated none other than Chief Warlock
Supreme Mugwump Headmaster Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore,
legendary defeater of Grindelwald, protector of Britain, rediscoverer of
the fabled twelve uses of dragon’s blood, the most powerful wizard in
the world &c.

And finally, on the far right, one would find the enigmatic Defence
Professor of Hogwarts, Quirinus Quirrell, who was leaning back on the
cushioned benches as though resting; seeming entirely and naturally at
ease in the rarefied company of a voting quorum of the Hogwarts Board of
Governors, which had dropped by on this fine Saturday to learn just what
the Fiddly-Snocks had been going on at Hogwarts in general and with
Draco Malfoy, Theodore Nott, Daphne Greengrass, Susan Bones, and Neville
Longbottom in particular. The name of Harry Potter had also been much
discussed.

Oh, and one mustn’t forget Tracey Davis, of course. Director Bones’s
eyebrows had climbed in some interest upon hearing the young couple
introduced as her parents. Lord Jugson had given them a brief,
incredulous stare before dismissing them with a snort. Lucius Malfoy had
greeted them politely, his smile containing a hint of grim amusement
mixed with pity.

Mr and Mrs Davis, whose last vote on anything of significance had been
touching their wands to the name of Minister Fudge, who had all of three
hundred Galleons stored in their Gringotts vault, and who respectively
worked at selling cauldrons in a Potions shop and enchanting
Omnioculars, were pressed up tightly against each other, sitting rigidly
erect upon their cushioned benches, and desperately wishing they’d worn
nicer robes.

The sky above was a solid mass of cloud dispersed into darker and
lighter greys, grim with the promise of future storms; though no
lightning flickered as yet, nor distant rumbles of thunder echoed; and
only a few threatening droplets had fallen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To their designated starting place in a certain forest, the Sunshine
Regiment marched, though it was really more like a slow walk; you
wouldn’t want to tire yourself out before the battle even started, and
the breezes of April were annoyingly humid, though cool. Ahead of them,
a yellow flame wandered slowly through the air, guiding them according
to their pace.

Susan Bones kept throwing worried glances toward the Sunshine General as
they marched through the greyly illuminated forest. Professor Snape’s
going after Hermione seemed to have really shaken her. Hermione had even
missed her Sunshine Regiment Official Planning Meeting, which seemed
understandable enough; but when Susan had offered her sympathy
afterwards, Hermione had stammered that she’d lost track of time, which
wasn’t at all a usual thing for her to say, and the girl had looked
exhausted and frightened like she’d just spent three days locked in a
bathroom stall with a Dementor. Even now, when all the Sunshine
General’s focus should’ve been on the coming battle, the Ravenclaw
girl’s gaze was constantly darting in all directions, as though she
expected Dark Wizards to jump out of the bushes and sacrifice her.

“The ban on Muggle artifacts cuts down our options a lot,” Anthony
Goldstein was saying in the dour tones the boy used to denote deliberate
pessimism. “I had the idea of trying to Transfigure nets to throw on
people, but—”

“No good,” said Ernie Macmillan. The Hufflepuff boy shook his head,
looking even more serious than Anthony. “I mean, it’s just like throwing
a hex, they’d dodge.”

Anthony nodded. “That’s what I figured, too. Do you have any ideas,
Seamus?”

The former Chaotic Lieutenant still looked a bit nervous and
out-of-place, marching along with his new comrades in the Sunshine
Regiment. “Sorry,” said the newly minted Captain Finnigan. “I’m more the
strategic master type.”

“I’m the strategic master type,” said Ron Weasley, sounding put-off.

“There are three armies,” the Sunshine General said acerbically, “which
means we fight two armies at once, which means we need more than one
strategist, which means shut up, Ron!”

Ron gave their General a surprised and worried look. “Hey,” the
Gryffindor boy said in a calming tone, “you shouldn’t let Snape get to
you so much—”

“What do you think we ought to do, General?” Susan said very loudly and
quickly. “I mean, we don’t really have a plan at this point.” Their
official planning session had failed amazingly with Hermione gone and
both Ron and Anthony thinking they were in charge.

“Do we really need a plan?” the Sunshine General said, sounding a little
distracted. “We’ve got you and me and Lavender and Parvati and Hannah
and Daphne and Ron and Ernie and Anthony and Captain Finnigan.”

“That—” began Anthony.

“Sounds like a pretty good strategy,” Ron said with an approving nod.
“We’ve got as many strong soldiers now as both other armies put
together. Chaos’s only got Potter and Longbottom and Nott left—well, and
Zabini too, I suppose—”

“And Tracey,” said Hermione.

Several people swallowed nervously.

“Oh, stop it,” Susan said sharply. “She’s just a battle-hardened member
of SPHEW, that’s all General Sunshine means.”

“Still,” Ernie said, turning to look seriously at Susan, “I think you’d
better go with whatever group fights Chaos, Captain Bones. I know you
can’t use your double magical powers except when innocents are in
danger, but I mean—just in case Miss Davis does, you know, go out of
control and try to eat someone’s soul—”

“I can handle her,” Susan told him, keeping her voice reassuring.
Admittedly, Susan hadn’t been replaced by a Metamorphmagus at the
moment, but then Tracey probably wasn’t Polyjuiced Dumbledore or
whoever.

Captain Finnigan intoned in a deep, sort-of-rumbling voice, “I find your
lack of skepticism disturbing.” He raised his hand with his thumb and
forefinger almost touching, pointed at Ernie.

For some reason Anthony Goldstein seemed to be having a sudden choking
fit. “What’s that supposed to mean?” said Ernie.

“It’s just something General Potter says sometimes,” said Captain
Finnigan. “Funny, when you first join the Chaos Legion it all seems
crazy, and then after a couple of months you realize that actually
everyone who isn’t in the Chaos Legion is crazy—”

“I said,” Ron said loudly, “it sounds like good strategy. We don’t
Transfigure anything, we don’t tire ourselves out, we handle whatever
they throw at us, and then we just overrun them.”

“Okay,” said Hermione. “Let’s do that.”

“But—” said Anthony, shooting a glare at Ron. “But General, Harry
Potter’s got sixteen people left in his army. Dragon and us each have
twenty-eight. Harry knows that, he knows he’s got to come up with
something incredible—”

“Like what?” demanded Hermione, sounding stressed. “If we don’t know
what he’s planning, we might as well save our magic for doing massed
Finites. Like we should’ve done last time!”

Susan touched Hermione gently on the shoulder. “General Granger?” said
Susan. “I think you should take a break for a bit before the battle.”

She’d been expecting Hermione to argue, but Hermione just nodded and
then walked a little faster, pulling away from the Sunshine Regiment
Official Officer Group, her eyes still watching the forest, and
sometimes the sky.

Susan followed her. It wouldn’t do, having it look like the Sunshine
General was being ejected from her own Official Officer Group.

“Hermione?” Susan said softly, after they’d walked a bit away. “You’ve
got to focus. Professor Quirrell’s in charge here, not Snape, and he
won’t let anything bad happen to you or anyone.”

“You’re not helping,” Hermione said, sounding shaky. “You’re not helping
at all, Captain Bones.”

The two of them walked faster, circling around some of the other
soldiers, inspecting the marching perimeter and glancing at the
surrounding trees.

“Susan?” Hermione said in a small voice, when they were further away
from all the others. “Do you think Daphne’s right about Draco Malfoy
plotting something?”

“Yes,” Susan said at once, not even thinking about it. “You can tell,
because his name’s got the letters M-A-L-F-O and Y in it.”

Hermione looked around, as if to make sure that nobody was watching,
although of course that was a wonderful way to get other people to pay
attention to you. “Could Malfoy have been behind what Snape did?”

“Snape could be behind Malfoy,” Susan said thoughtfully, remembering
dinner-table conversations she’d heard at Auntie’s, “or Lucius Malfoy
could be behind both of them.” A slight chill went down Susan’s spine as
this last thought occurred to her. Suddenly, telling Hermione to just
focus on the coming battle seemed a lot less reasonable. “Why, did you
find some sort of clue about that?”

Hermione shook her head. “No,” the Ravenclaw girl said, in a voice that
sounded almost like she was about to cry. “I was—just thinking about it
myself—that’s all.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In their designated place in a forest near Hogwarts, the Dragon General
and the warriors of Dragon Army waited where their red flame had led
them, beneath grey skies.

At Draco’s right side stood Padma Patil, his second-in-command, who had
once led all of Dragon Army after Draco had been stunned. At Draco’s
back was Vincent, the son of Crabbe, a family which had served the
Malfoys into the distance of forgotten memory; the muscular boy was
watchful as he was always watchful, whether battle had been declared or
no. Further back, Gregory of the Goyles stood waiting beside one of the
two broomsticks Dragon Army had been given; if the Goyles had not served
the Malfoys so long as the Crabbes, yet they had served no less well.

And at Draco’s left side, now, stood one Dean Thomas of Gryffindor, a
mudblood or possible half-blood who knew nothing of his father.

Sending Dean Thomas to Dragon Army had been a quite deliberate move on
Harry’s part, Draco was certain. Three other former Chaotics had also
been transferred to Dragon Army, and all were watching Draco hawklike to
see if he offered the former Lieutenant the slightest insult.

Some might have called it sabotage, but Draco knew better. Harry had
also sent Lieutenant Finnigan to the Sunshine Regiment, even though
Professor Quirrell’s mandate had only required that Harry give up one
Lieutenant. That too had been a deliberate move, making crystal clear to
everyone that Harry wasn’t dumping his least-favoured soldiers.

In one sense, it might have been easier for Draco to win the true
loyalties of his new soldiers if they’d thought Harry hadn’t wanted
them. In another sense… well, it wasn’t easy to put into words. Harry
had given him good soldiers with their pride intact, but it was more
than that. Harry had showed kindliness toward his soldiers, but it was
more than that. It wasn’t just Harry playing fair, it was something
that… that you couldn’t help but contrast with the way the game was
played in Slytherin House.

So Draco hadn’t offered the slightest insult to Mr Thomas, but brought
him straight to his side, subordinate to himself and Padma but no-one
else. It was a test, Draco had told Mr Thomas and everyone, not a
promotion. Mr Thomas would have to show himself worthy of rank within
Dragon Army—but he would be given a chance, and the chance would be
fair. Mr Thomas had looked surprised at the ceremony of it (the Chaos
Legion, from what Draco had heard, didn’t stand on formality) but the
Gryffindor boy had stood a little straighter, and nodded.

And then, after Mr Thomas had done well enough in one of Dragon Army’s
training sessions, he’d been brought into the strategy session in Dragon
Army’s huge military office. And a few minutes into the session, Padma
had happened to ask—as though it was a perfectly normal question—whether
Mr Thomas had any ideas about how to defeat the Chaos Legion.

The Gryffindor boy had said cheerfully that Harry had predicted that
General Malfoy would get one of his soldiers to ask him that, and that
Harry had given him the message that General Malfoy should ask himself
where his relative advantage lay—what Draco Malfoy could do, or what
Dragon Army could do, that the Chaos Legion couldn’t match—and then try
to exploit it for all it was worth. Dean Thomas couldn’t think of what
that advantage might be, but if he did come up with any ideas for
beating Chaos, he’d share them. Harry had ordered him to, after all.

Sigh, Draco had thought, since he couldn’t actually sigh out loud. But
it was good advice, and Draco had followed it, sitting at his bedroom
desk with quill and parchment listing out everything that might be a
relative advantage.

And, almost to Draco’s own surprise, he’d had an idea, a real one. In
fact he’d had two.

The hollow bell sounded through the forest, somehow sounding more
ominous than ever before. On the instant, the two pilots cried “Up!” and
leapt onto their broomsticks, heading into the grey sky.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr and Mrs Davis had now slumped slightly against each other, more from
sheer muscle exhaustion than from any decrease of tension. Before them,
the vast blank white parchment flickered with three great windows, as
though holes had been cut through into the forest, showing three armies
on the march. Lesser windows showed the six riders upon their
broomsticks, and the corner of the parchment showed a view of the entire
forest, with glowing dots to indicate armies and scouts.

The window into Sunshine showed General Granger and her Captains
marching in the centre of the Sunshine Regiment, protected by Contego
screens along with a number of other young witches. The Sunshine
Regiment, the Defence Professor had remarked, knew well that it had now
acquired a strong advantage in experienced soldiers, and it meant to
protect those soldiers from a surprise attack. Aside from that, the
Sunshine Soldiers were moving forward at a steady march, conserving
their strength.

The soldiers in General Malfoy’s army, at least those with higher
Transfiguration scores, were picking up leaves and Transfiguring them
into… well, if you looked at Padma Patil, who was almost done with hers,
it looked like her leaf was becoming a left-handed glove bearing a
dangling strap. (The window had zoomed in to show this.)

Lord Jugson was watching the screen with a flat expression; his voice,
when he spoke, seemed to ooze and drip with disdain. “What is your son
doing, Lucius?”

The foreign-born witch who stood at Draco Malfoy’s right side had
finished Transfiguring her glove, and was now bringing it before the
Dragon General like a sacrifice.

“I do not know,” said Lucius Malfoy, his tone calm though no less
aristocratic, “but I must trust that he has good reason for doing it.”

All Dragon Army stopped for a moment as Padma slid the glove over her
left hand, strapped it in place, and presented it before Draco Malfoy;
who also stopped in place, took several deep breaths, raised his wand,
executed a precise set of eight movements and bellowed “Colloportus!”

The Dragon Warrior raised her gloved hand, flexed it, and gave a small
bow to Draco Malfoy, who returned it more shallowly, though the Dragon
General was staggering slightly. Padma then returned to her place at
Draco’s side, and the Dragons began marching once more.

“Well,” remarked Augusta Longbottom. “I don’t suppose someone would care
to explain?” Amelia Bones was frowning slightly as she gazed at the
screen.

“For some reason or other,” said the amused voice of Professor Quirrell,
“it seems that the scion of Malfoy is able to cast surprisingly strong
magic for a first-year student. Due to the purity of his blood, of
course. Certainly the good Lord Malfoy would not have openly flouted the
underage magic laws by arranging for his son to receive a wand before
his acceptance into Hogwarts.”

“I suggest you be careful in your implications, Quirrell,” Lucius Malfoy
said coldly.

“Oh, I am,” Professor Quirrell said. “A Colloportus cannot be dispelled
by Finite Incantatem; it requires an Alohomora of equal strength. Until
then, a glove so Charmed will resist lesser material forces, deflect the
Sleep Hex and the Stunning Hex. And as neither Mr Potter nor
Miss Granger can cast a counter-spell powerful enough, that Charm is
invincible upon this battlefield. It is not the original intent of the
Charm, nor the intent of whoever taught Mr Malfoy an emergency spell for
evading his enemies. But it would seem that Mr Malfoy has been learning
creativity.”

Lucius Malfoy had straightened as the Defence Professor spoke; he now
sat erect upon his cushioned bench, his head held perceptibly higher
than before, and when he spoke it was with quiet pride. “He will be the
greatest Lord Malfoy that has yet lived.”

“Faint praise,” Augusta Longbottom said under her breath; Amelia Bones
chuckled, as did Mr Davis for a tiny, fatal fraction of a second before
he stopped with a strangled gargle.

“I quite agree,” said Professor Quirrell, though it wasn’t clear to whom
he spoke. “Unfortunately for Mr Malfoy, he is still new to the art of
creativity, and so he has committed a classic error of Ravenclaw.”

“And what might that be?” said Lucius Malfoy, his voice now turned chill
once more.

Professor Quirrell had leaned back in his seat, the pale blue eyes
briefly unfocusing as one of the windows shifted its viewpoint within
the greater screen, zooming in to show the sweat now on Draco Malfoy’s
forehead. “It is such a beautiful idea that Mr Malfoy has quite
overlooked its pragmatic difficulties.”

“Would someone care to explain that?” said Lady Greengrass. “Not all of
us present are experts at such… affairs.”

Amelia Bones spoke, the old witch’s voice somewhat dry. “It will tempt
them to try to catch hexes that they would be wiser to simply dodge. The
more so, if they have had little practice catching them. And the casting
of so many Charms will tire their strongest warrior.”

Professor Quirrell gave the DMLE Director a half-nod of acknowledgement.
“As you say, Madam Bones. Mr Malfoy is new to the business of having
ideas, and so when he has one, he becomes proud of himself for having
it. He has not yet had enough ideas to unflinchingly discard those that
are beautiful in some aspects and impractical in others; he has not yet
acquired confidence in his own ability to think of better ideas as he
requires them. What we are seeing here is not Mr Malfoy’s best idea, I
fear, but rather his only idea.”

Lord Malfoy simply turned to watch the screens again, as though the
Defence Professor had used up his right to exist.

“But—” said Lord Greengrass. “But what in Merlin’s name is Harry
Potter—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sixteen remaining soldiers of the Chaos Legion—or fifteen plus Blaise
Zabini, rather—marched confidently through the forest, their shoes
thudding over the still-dry ground. Their camouflage uniforms blended
into the forest even more than usual, all colours washed out by the
tints of an overcast day.

Sixteen Chaos Legionnaires, against twenty-eight Dragon Warriors and
twenty-eight Sunshine Soldiers.

The common consensus had been that, with odds that bad, it was
practically impossible for them to lose. After all, General Chaos was
bound to come up with something really spectacular, facing odds like
that.

There was something almost nightmarish about how everyone seemed to now
expect Harry to pull miracles out of his hat, on demand, any time one
was needed. It meant that if you couldn’t do the impossible, you were
disappointing your friends and failing to live up to your potential…

Harry hadn’t bothered complaining to Professor Quirrell about ‘too much
pressure’. Harry’s mental model of the Defence Professor had predicted
him looking severely annoyed, saying things along the lines of You are
perfectly capable of solving this problem, Mr Potter; did you even try?
and then deducting several hundred Quirrell points.

From above, from where two broomsticks watched their march, the high
young voice of Tess Walsh cried “Friend!” and after another moment,
“Gingersnap!”

A handful of seconds later, the soldier who’d code-named herself
Gingersnap returned bearing a double handful of acorns, sweating
slightly in the cool but humid air from the jog that had taken her to
the oak tree Neville had spotted. Gingersnap approached to where Shannon
was holding a uniform-shirt with the neck tied off, in lieu of anyone
having to Transfigure a bag. When Gingersnap brought her hands forward
to try and dump her acorns into the holding-shirt, Chaotic Shannon,
giggling, jerked the shirt to the right, then to the left again as
Gingersnap made another effort to dump the acorns, until a sharp
“Miss Friedman!” from Lieutenant Nott caused Shannon to sigh and hold
the shirt still. Gingersnap dumped her acorns into those accumulated,
and then headed out for more.

Somewhere in the background, Ellie Knight was singing her very own
version of the Chaos Legion’s marching song, and around half the other
soldiers were trying to step along with it despite not knowing the tune
in advance. Nearby, Nita Berdine, who had a high Transfiguration score,
finished creating yet another pair of green sunglasses, and handed them
to Adam Beringer, who folded up the sunglasses before tucking them into
his uniform pocket. Other soldiers were already wearing their own green
sunglasses, despite the cloudy day.

You might guess that there was some sort of incredibly complicated and
fascinating explanation behind this, and you would be right.

Two days earlier Harry had been sitting amid his bookcases in the comfy
rocking chair he’d obtained for his trunk’s cavern level, pondering
silently in the quiet span between classes and dinner time, thinking
about power.

For sixteen Chaotics to defeat twenty-eight Sunnies and twenty-eight
Dragons they would need a force amplifier. There were limits to what you
could do with manœuvre. There had to be a secret weapon and it had to be
invincible, or at least moderately unstoppable.

Muggle artifacts were now illegal in Hogwarts’s mock battles, banned by
Ministry edict. And the trouble with finding some other clever and
unusual spell was that an army twice your own size could brute-force
Finite almost anything you tried. The Sunshine Regiment might have
missed that tactic with the Transfigured chain mail, but nobody would
miss it again now that Professor Quirrell had pointed it out. And Finite
Incantatem was a brute-force counter-spell which required at least as
much magic as the spell being cancelled… which, if you were severely
outnumbered, made it a whole new order of military challenge. The enemy
could Finite anything you tried, and still have enough magic left over
for shields and volleys of Sleep Hexes.

Unless, somehow, you could invoke potencies beyond the ordinary strength
of first-year Hogwarts students, something too powerful for the enemy to
Finite.

So Harry had asked Neville if he’d ever heard of any small, safe
sacrificial rituals—

And then, after the screaming and the shouting had subsided, after Harry
had stopped trying to argue about Unbreakable Vows and just given up the
whole thing as impossible from a public relations standpoint, Harry had
realized that he hadn’t even needed to go there. They taught you how to
invoke potencies far beyond your own strength in ordinary Hogwarts
classes.

Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you
didn’t realize what you were looking at until you happened to ask
exactly the right question.

Defence. Charms. Transfiguration. Potions. History of Magic. Astronomy.
Broomstick Flying. Herbology…

“Foe!” screamed the voice from above.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was a good thing that Neville Longbottom hadn’t the tiniest idea that
his grandmother was watching; or he would’ve been more self-conscious
about screaming scary battle-cries at the top of his lungs while casting
Luminos every three seconds as he rocketed through a dense forest of
trees, hot on the tail of Gregory Goyle.

(“But—” Augusta Longbottom said, her expression showing almost as much
astonishment as worry. “But Neville is afraid of heights!”)

(“Not all fears last,” said Amelia Bones. The old witch was favouring
the great screen before them with a measuring gaze. “Or perhaps he has
found courage. It is much the same, in the end.”)

A glimmer of red—

Neville dodged, very nearly into a tree but he did dodge; and then
Neville somehow also managed to dodge almost all of the branches before
they smacked him in the face.

Now Mr Goyle’s broomstick was pulling further and further away—even
though the two of them were riding exactly the same broomstick and
Mr Goyle weighed more, somehow Neville was still falling behind. So
Neville slowed down, pulled back, angled up out of the forest and began
to accelerate back toward where the Chaos Legion still marched.

Twenty seconds later—it hadn’t been a long chase, just an exciting
one—Neville was back among his fellow Chaotics, and dismounted his broom
to walk on the ground for a little bit.

“Neville—” said General Potter. Harry’s voice was a little distant, as
he walked carefully and steadily through the forest, his wand still
applied to the almost-finished Form of the object he was slowly
Transfiguring. Beside him, Blaise Zabini, working a smaller version of
the same Transfiguration, looked like a shambling Inferi as he stumbled
forward. “I told you—Neville—you don’t have to—”

“Yes, I do,” said Neville. He looked down at where his fingers grasped
the broomstick, and saw that not just his hands, but his whole arms were
shaking. But unless anyone else in Chaos had been practising duelling
for an hour a day with Mr Diggory, and then practising their aim in
private for another hour afterwards, Neville was probably the best shot
from a broomstick even after taking into account that he wasn’t a very
good flyer.

“Good show, Neville,” Theodore said from where he was walking ahead of
them all, leading the Chaos Legion forward through the forest while
wearing only his under-shirt.

(Augusta Longbottom and Charles Nott exchanged brief astonished glances
and then wrenched their gazes away from one another as though stung.)

Neville took a few deep breaths, trying to steady his hands, trying to
think; Harry might not be good for deep strategic thinking while he was
in the middle of an extended Transfiguration. “Lieutenant Nott, do you
have any idea why Dragon Army just did that? They lost a broom—” The
Dragons had started the combat with a feint to provide a distraction for
Mr Goyle’s approach through the forest; Neville hadn’t realized there
were two brooms attacking until almost too late. But the Chaos Legion
had got the other pilot. That was why broomsticks usually didn’t attack
before armies met, it meant a whole army would concentrate fire on the
broomstick. “And the Dragons didn’t even get anyone, did they?”

“Nope!” Tracey Davis said proudly. She too was now marching by General
Potter’s side, her wand gripped low and watchful as her eyes scanned the
surrounding forest. “I threw up a Prismatic Sphere like a split second
before Mr Goyle’s hex got Zabini, and the way Mr Goyle had his other arm
stretched out I think he planned to knock down the General, too.” The
Slytherin witch smiled with vicious confidence. “Mr Goyle tried a
Breaking Drill Hex, but learned to his dismay that his weak magic was no
match for my newfound dark powers, hahahaha!”

Some Chaotics laughed with her, but a queasy sensation was starting in
Neville’s stomach as he realized how close the Chaos Legion had come to
complete disaster. If Mr Goyle had managed to disrupt both
Transfigurations—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Report!” snapped the Dragon General, doing his best to conceal the
fatigue he felt after casting seventeen Locking Charms, with more yet to
come.

Beads of sweat now dotted Gregory’s forehead. “The enemy downed Dylan
Vaughan,” Gregory said formally. “Harry Potter and Blaise Zabini were
each Transfiguring something dark grey and roundish, I don’t think it
was finished but it looked like it would be big and hollow, sort of
cauldron-shaped. Zabini’s was smaller than Potter’s. I couldn’t get
either of them or disrupt their Transfigurations, Tracey Davis blocked
me. Neville Longbottom is on a broomstick and he’s still a terrible
flyer but his aim is really good.”

Draco listened, frowning, and then he glanced at Padma and Dean Thomas,
who both shook their own heads, indicating that they also couldn’t think
of what might be big and grey and shaped like a cauldron.

“Anything else?” said Draco. If that was it, they’d lost a broom for
nothing—

“The only other weird thing I saw,” Gregory said, sounding puzzled, “was
that some Chaotics were wearing… sort of like goggles?”

Draco thought about this, not noticing that he’d stopped marching or
that all of Dragon Army had automatically stopped with him.

“Was there anything special about the goggles?” Draco said.

“Um…” Gregory said. “They were… greenish, maybe?”

“Okay,” said Draco. Again without thinking, he began walking once more
and his Dragons followed. “Here’s our new strategy. We’re only going to
send eleven Dragons against the Chaos Legion, not fourteen. That should
be enough to beat them, now that we can neutralize their special
advantage.” It was a gamble, but you had to take gambles sometimes, if
you wanted to come in first in a three-way battle.

“You figured out Chaos’s plan, General Malfoy?” said Mr Thomas with
considerable surprise.

“What are they doing?” said Padma.

“I haven’t the faintest idea,” said Draco, with a smirk of the most
refined smugness. “We’ll just do the obvious thing.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry, having now finished his cauldron, was carefully scooping acorns
into the container while the scouts searched for a nearby source of
water that could be used as a liquid base. They’d come across frequent
sinkholes and miniature creeks in the forest before, so it ought not to
take long. Another scout had brought a straight stick that would serve
as a stirrer, so Harry didn’t have to Transfigure one.

Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you
didn’t realize what you were looking at until you happened to ask
exactly the right question…

How can I invoke magical powers that ought to be beyond the reach of
first-year students?

There was a cautionary tale the Potions Master had told them (with much
sneers and laughter to make the stupidity seem low-status instead of
daring and romantic) about a second-year witch in Beauxbatons who’d
stolen some extremely restricted and expensive ingredients, and tried to
brew Polyjuice so she could borrow the form of another girl for purposes
better left unmentioned. Only she’d managed to contaminate the potion
with cat hairs, and then instead of seeking a healer immediately, the
witch had hidden herself in a bathroom, hoping the effects would just
wear off; and when she’d finally been found, it had been too late to
reverse the transformation completely, condemning her to a life of
despair as a sort of cat-girl hybrid.

Harry hadn’t realized what that meant until the instant of thinking the
right question—but what that implied was that a young wizard or witch
could do things with Potions-Making that they couldn’t even come close
to doing with Charms. Polyjuice was one of the most potent potions
known… but what made Polyjuice a N.E.W.T.-level potion, apparently,
wasn’t the required age before you had enough magical power; it was how
difficult the potion was to brew precisely and what happened to you if
you messed up.

Nobody in any army had tried brewing any potions up until then. But
Professor Quirrell would let you get away with nearly anything, if it
was something you could also have done in a real war. Cheating is
technique, the Defence Professor had once lectured them. Or rather,
cheating is what the losers call technique, and will be worth extra
Quirrell points when executed successfully. In principle, there was
nothing unrealistic about Transfiguring a couple of cauldrons and
brewing potions out of whatever came to hand, if you had enough time
before the armies met.

So Harry had retrieved his copy of Magical Drafts and Potions, and begun
looking for a safe but useful potion he could brew in the minutes before
the battle started—a potion which would win the battle too fast for
counter-spells, or produce spell effects too strong for first-years to
Finite.

Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you
didn’t realize what you were looking at until you happened to ask
exactly the right question…

What potion can I brew using only components gathered from an ordinary
forest?

Every recipe in Magical Drafts and Potions used at least one ingredient
from a magical plant or animal. Which was unfortunate, because all the
magical plants and animals were in the Forbidden Forest, not the safer
and lesser woods where battles were held.

Someone else might have given up at that point.

Harry had turned the pages from one recipe to another, skimming faster
and faster in dawning realization, confirming what he had already read
and was now seeing for the first time.

Every single Potions recipe seemed to demand at least one magical
ingredient, but why should that be true?

Charms required no material components at all; you just said the words
and waved your wand. Harry had been thinking about Potions-Making as
essentially analogous: instead of your spoken syllables triggering a
spell effect for no comprehensible reason, you collected a batch of
disgusting ingredients and stirred four times clockwise, and that
arbitrarily triggered a spell effect.

In which case, given that most potions used ordinary components like
porcupine quills or stewed slugs, you’d expect to see some potions using
only ordinary components.

But instead every single recipe in Magical Drafts and Potions demanded
at least one component from a magical plant or animal—an ingredient like
silk from an Acromantula or petals from a Venus Fire Trap.

Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you
didn’t realize what you were looking at until you happened to ask
exactly the right question…

If making a potion is like casting a Charm, why don’t I fall over from
exhaustion after brewing a draught as powerful as boil-curing?

The Friday before last, Harry’s double Potions class had brewed potion
of boil-curing… although even the most trivial healing Charms, if you
tried to cast them with wand and incantation, were at least fourth-year
spells. And afterwards, they’d all felt the way they usually felt after
Potions class, namely, not magically exhausted to any discernible
degree.

Harry had shut his copy of Magical Drafts and Potions with a snap, and
rushed down to the Ravenclaw common room. Harry had found a seventh-year
Ravenclaw doing his N.E.W.T. potions homework and paid the older boy a
Sickle to borrow Moste Potente Potions for five minutes; because Harry
hadn’t wanted to run all the way to the library to find confirmation.

After skimming through five recipes in the seventh-year book, Harry had
read the sixth recipe, for a potion of fire breathing, which required
Ashwinder eggs… and the book warned that the resulting fire could be no
hotter than the magical fire which had spawned the Ashwinder which had
laid the eggs.

Harry had shouted “Eureka!” right in the middle of the Ravenclaw common
room, and been severely rebuked by a nearby prefect, who’d thought
Mr Potter was trying to cast a spell. Nobody in the wizarding world knew
or cared about some ancient Muggle named Archimedes, nor the
ur-physicist’s realization that the water displaced from a bathtub would
equal the volume of the object entering the bathtub…

Conservation laws. They’d been the critical insight in more Muggle
discoveries than Harry could easily count. In Muggle technology you
couldn’t raise a feather one metre off the ground without the power
coming from somewhere. If you looked at molten lava spilling from a
volcano and asked where the heat came from, a physicist would tell you
about radioactive heavy metals in the centre of the Earth’s molten core.
If you asked where the energy to power the radioactivity came from, the
physicist would point to an era before the Earth had formed, and a
primordial supernova in the early days of the galaxy which had baked
atomic nuclei heavier than the natural limit, the supernova compressing
protons and neutrons into a tight unstable package that yielded back
some of the supernova’s energy when it split. A light bulb was fuelled
by electricity, fuelled by a nuclear power plant, fuelled by a
supernova… You could play the game all the way back to the Big Bang.

Magic did not appear to work like this, to put it mildly. Magic’s
attitude toward laws like Conservation of Energy was somewhere between a
giant extended middle finger, and a shrug of total indifference.
Aguamenti created water out of nothingness, so far as anyone knew; there
was no known lake whose water level went down each time. That was a
simple fifth-year spell, not considered impressive by wizards, because
creating a mere glass of water didn’t seem amazing to them. They didn’t
have the wacky notion that mass ought to be conserved, or that creating
a gram of mass was somehow equivalent to creating 90,000,000,000,000
joules of energy. There was an upper-year spell Harry had run across
whose literal incantation was ‘Arresto Momentum!’ and when Harry had
asked if the momentum went anywhere else he’d just got a puzzled look.
Harry had kept an increasingly desperate eye out for some kind of
conservation principle in magic, anywhere whatsoever…

…and the whole time it had been right in front of him in every Potions
class. Potions-Making didn’t create magic, it preserved magic, that was
why every potion needed at least one magical ingredient. And by
following instructions like ‘stir four times anticlockwise and once
clockwise’—Harry had hypothesized—you were doing something like casting
a small spell that reshaped the magic in the ingredients. (And unbound
the physical form so that ingredients like porcupine quills dissolved
smoothly into a drinkable liquid; Harry strongly suspected that a Muggle
following exactly the same recipe would end up with nothing but a spiny
mess.) That was what Potions-Making really was, the art of transforming
existing magical essences. So you were a little tired after Potions
class, but not much, because you weren’t empowering the potions
yourself, you were just reshaping magic that was already there. And that
was why a second-year witch could brew Polyjuice, or at least get close.

Harry had kept scanning through Moste Potente Potions, looking for
something that might disprove his shiny new theory. After five minutes
he’d flipped the older boy another Sickle (over his protests) and kept
going.

The potion of giant strength required a Re’em to trample the mashed
Dugbogs you stirred into the potion. It was odd, Harry had realized
after a moment, because crushed Dugbogs weren’t strong themselves, they
were just… very, very crushed after the Re’em got through with them.

Another recipe said to ‘touch with forged bronze’, i.e., grasp a Knut in
pliers so you could skim the potion’s surface; and if you dropped the
Knut all the way in, the book warned, the potion would instantly
superheat and boil over the cauldron.

Harry had stared at the recipes and their warnings, forming a second and
stranger hypothesis. Of course it wouldn’t be as simple as
Potions-Making using magical potentials imbued in the ingredients, like
Muggle cars fuelled by the combustion potential of gasoline. Magic would
never be as sensible as that…

And then Harry had gone to Professor Flitwick—since he didn’t want to
approach Professor Snape outside of class—and Harry had told Professor
Flitwick that he wanted to invent a new potion, and he knew what the
ingredients ought to be and what the potion should do, but he didn’t
know how to deduce the required stirring pattern—

After Professor Flitwick had stopped screaming in horror and running in
little circles, and Professor McGonagall had been called into the
ensuing fierce interrogation to promise Harry that in this case it was
both acceptable and important for him to reveal his underlying theory,
it had developed that Harry had not made an original magical discovery,
but rediscovered a law so ancient that nobody knew who had first
formulated it:

A potion spends that which is invested in the creation of its
ingredients.

The heat of goblin forges that had cast the bronze Knut, the Re’em’s
strength that had crushed the Dugbogs, the magical fire that had spawned
the Ashwinder: all these potencies could be recalled, unlocked, and
restructured by the spell-like process of stirring the ingredients in
exact patterns.

(From a Muggle standpoint it was just odd, a deranged version of
thermodynamics invented by someone who thought life ought to be fair.
From a Muggle standpoint, the heat expended in forging the Knut hadn’t
gone into the bronze, the heat had left and dissipated into the
environment, becoming permanently less available. Energy was conserved,
could be neither created nor destroyed; entropy always increased. But
wizards didn’t think that way: from their perspective, if you’d put some
amount of work into making a Knut, it stood to reason that you could get
exactly the same work back out. Harry had tried to explain why this
sounded a bit odd if you’d been raised by Muggles, and Professor
McGonagall had asked bemusedly why the Muggle perspective was any better
than the wizarding one.)

The fundamental principle of Potions-Making had no name and no standard
phrasing, since then you might be tempted to write it down.

And someone who wasn’t wise enough to figure out the principle
themselves might read it.

And they would start having all sorts of bright ideas for inventing new
Potions.

And then they would be turned into cat-girls.

It had been made very clear to Harry that he wasn’t going to be sharing
this particular discovery with Neville, or Hermione either after the
next armies’ battle. Harry had tried to say something about Hermione
seeming really off lately and this being just the sort of thing that
might cheer her up. Professor McGonagall had said flatly that he wasn’t
even to think it, and Professor Flitwick had raised his little hands and
made a gesture as of snapping a wand in half.

Although the two Professors had been kind enough to suggest that if
Mr Potter thought he knew what the potion’s ingredients should be, he
might be able to find an already-existing recipe that did the same
thing; and Professor Flitwick had mentioned several volumes in the
Hogwarts library that might be useful…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The vast parchment-like screen now showed only an ærial view of the
forest, from which you could barely make out the camouflaged forms of
three armies, split up into two groups each, converging to fight their
three-way battle.

The benches of the Quidditch stadium were now rapidly filling up with
the more easily bored sort of spectator who only wanted to be there for
the final battle and skip out on all the boring points along the way.
(If there was anything wrong with Professor Quirrell’s battles, it was
widely agreed, it was that his spectacles didn’t last nearly as long as
Quidditch matches, once they actually started. To this Professor
Quirrell had replied only, Such is realism, and that had been that.)

Within the huge window—it was all one window now, observing from a great
height—the vague collections of tiny camouflaged forms grew closer.

Closer.

Almost touching—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The vast white parchment window showed the first touch of battle between
Sunshine and Chaos, a screaming mass of running children with
smiley-faces upon their breasts, charging forward with Contego shields
held high and others shouting “Somnium!”—

Until one of their number shrieked “Prismatis!” in a terrified voice and
the entire charge came to a sudden halt before the sparkling wall of
force that had appeared in front of them.

Tracey Davis had walked out from behind the trees.

“That’s right,” said Tracey, her voice low and grim as she levelled her
wand on the barrier. “You should fear me. For I am Tracey Davis, the
Darke Lady! That’s Darke Lady spelled D-A-R-K-E, with an E!”

(Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement,
was sending an inquiring look at Mr and Mrs Davis, both of whom looked
like they would have dearly loved to die on the spot.)

Behind the Prismatic Barrier, there was some kind of hushed argument
taking place among the Sunshine Soldiers, one of whom in particular
seemed to be getting scolded by several of the others.

Then, a moment later, Tracey flinched.

Susan Bones had come to the front of the Sunshine contingent.

(“Goodness,” said Augusta Longbottom. “What do you suppose your
grand-niece has been learning at Hogwarts?”)

(“I don’t know,” Amelia Bones said calmly, “but I shall owl her a
Chocolate Frog and instructions to learn more of it.”)

The Prismatic Barrier vanished.

The Sunshine Soldiers resumed their charge forward.

Tracey yelled, her voice high with strain, “Inflammare!” and the
Sunshine charge came to another sudden halt as a line of fire blazed up
between them in the half-dry grass, extending to follow the path of
Tracey’s wand as she pointed it; an instant later Susan Bones cried
“Finite Incantatem!” and the flames dimmed, brightened, dimmed in the
contest of their wills, other soldiers raising their wands to aim at
Tracey; and that was when Neville Longbottom plunged shrieking out of
the sky.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the Dragon Warriors, Raymond Arnold, made a hand-sign, pointing
forward and oblique left; and there was a sudden hushed hiss of whispers
among the Dragon Army contingent as they all quietly reoriented
themselves in the direction of the enemy. The Sunnies knew they were
there, of course both armies knew; but somehow, in this moment, they had
all become instinctively quiet.

The Dragons crept forward further, and then further, the dull
camouflaged forms of the Sunnies beginning to appear among the distant
trees, and still nobody spoke, nobody bellowed the call to charge.

Draco was now at the forefront of his soldiers, Vincent behind him and
Padma only a shade further back; if the three of them could take the
shock of Sunshine’s best, the rest of Dragon Army might stand a chance.

Then Draco saw one Sunnie staring at him from the distance, in the
vanguard of her own army; staring at him with a look of fury—

Across the forest battleground, their eyes met.

Draco had only a fraction of a second to wonder, in the back of his
mind, what Hermione Granger was so angry about, before the shout went up
from both their armies; and they were all running forward to the charge.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The other Chaotics had appeared now from among the trees, some had
dropped out of trees, and the battle was in full force now, everyone
firing in every direction at anything that looked like an enemy. Plus a
number of Sunnies crying “Luminos!” at Neville Longbottom as the Chaos
Hufflepuff twisted and rocketed up through the air on courses that could
only be described as, indeed, “chaotic”—

And it happened, the way it happened only one time out of twenty in mock
ærial combat, that Neville Longbottom’s broomstick glowed bright red
beneath his clenched hands.

It should’ve meant that Longbottom was out of the game.

Then, in the Hogwarts stands, among the watching crowds of students, a
scream went up—

Combat realism. It was Professor Quirrell’s one master rule. You could
get away with anything if it was realistic, and in real life, a soldier
didn’t just vanish when their broomstick got hit by a curse.

Neville was falling toward the ground and screaming “Chaotic landing!”
and the Chaotics were wrenching their attention away from fights to cast
the Hover Charm (and run at the same time so they wouldn’t be sitting
ducks), almost everyone else stopping to gape—

And Neville Longbottom slammed into the leaf-laden forest ground,
landing on one knee, one foot, and both hands, as though he were
kneeling down to be knighted.

Everything stopped. Even Tracey and Susan paused in their duel.

In the stadium, all crowd noises vanished.

There was a universal silence composed of astonishment, concern, and
sheer dumbstruck gaping awe, as everyone waited to see what would happen
next.

And then Neville Longbottom slowly rose to his feet, and levelled his
wand at the Sunshine Soldiers.

Though nobody on the battlefield heard it, a large segment of the
stadium audience had begun chanting, in steadily rising notes each time
the word was uttered, “DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM”, because you just
couldn’t see that and not think it required musical accompaniment.

“The crowd is cheering your grandson,” said Amelia Bones. The old witch
was favouring the screen with a measuring look.

“So they are,” said Augusta Longbottom. “Some, if I hear correctly, are
cheering, Our blood for Neville! Our souls for Neville!”

“Quite,” said Amelia, taking a sip from a teacup which had not been
there moments earlier. “It shows the lad has leadership potential.”

“These cheers,” continued Augusta, her voice taking on an even more
stunned quality, “seem to be coming from the Hufflepuff benches.”

“It is the House of the loyal, my dear,” said Amelia.

“Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore! What in Merlin’s name has been
happening in this school?”

Lucius Malfoy was watching the screens with an ironic smile, his fingers
tapping at his armrest in no discernible pattern. “I do not know what is
more frightening, the thought that he has some hidden plan behind all
this, or the thought that he does not.”

“Look!” cried the Lord of Greengrass. The dapper young man had risen
half out of his chair, pointing his finger at the screen. “There she
goes!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“We’ll both take him at once,” Daphne whispered. She knew that a few
fear-filled minutes of real combat experience, a handful of times each
week, might not be enough to match Neville’s regular duelling practice
with Harry and Cedric Diggory over the same period. “He’s too much for
one of us, but both of us together—I’ll use my Charm, you just try to
stun him—”

Hannah, beside her, nodded, and then they both screamed at the top of
their lungs and charged forward, the Hover Charms of two supporting
Sunshine Soldiers moving them faster and making them light on their
feet, Daphne already crying “Tonare!” even as Hannah kept a huge Contego
shield moving in front of them, and with a brief extra lift they leapt
over the heads of the front screen of soldiers and landed in front of
Neville with their hair billowing high around them—

(Photographs were strictly prohibited at all Hogwarts games, but somehow
this moment still ended up on the front page of the next day’s
Quibbler.)

—and in the same instant, because fighting older bullies had burned away
the slightest traces of hesitation, Hannah fired her first Sleep Hex at
Neville (she’d started the incantation while she was still in the air)
even as Daphne, concentrating more on speed than on force, slashed down
with her Ancient Blade at where she thought Neville’s thighs would be
after he dodged—

But Neville leapt up, not sideways, leapt up higher than he should’ve
been able to go, so that her glowing sword cut only the air beneath his
feet. Somehow Daphne realized what it meant, that Neville still had
other Chaotics Hovering him, in time for her to raise her Blade up over
her head, but Neville fell too fast and when his Blade smashed into hers
it was like being hit by a Bludger. It knocked Daphne off her feet and
sent her sprawling backward onto the grass, hitting the ground hard on
her back. It might have been all over for her, then, if Neville hadn’t
landed too hard himself and gone to his knees with a pained gasp. And
then before Neville could bring his glowing Blade down, Hannah shouted
“Somnium!” and Neville lurched frantically backward—though of course no
spell had actually come from Hannah’s wand, the Hufflepuff girl couldn’t
really have fired again that fast—which gave Daphne a second to scramble
to her feet and get both hands around her wand again—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Dear Merlin,” said Lady Greengrass. Her voice seemed unsteady, the
aristocratic poise well-punctured. “My daughter is fighting with the
Charm of the Most Ancient Blade. In her first year. I never knew she
possessed—such extraordinary talent—”

“Excellent blood,” Charles Nott said approvingly, causing Augusta to
snort.

“My good Lady,” said Professor Quirrell, sounding grave. “Do not wrong
your daughter so. That is not mere talent which you see.” His voice grew
a little dryer. “Rather, it is what happens when children put their
competitive efforts into a game which involves actual spell-casting.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Expelliarmus!” shouted Draco, trying not to let his voice crack as he
simultaneously dodged the blazing red stun bolt that Hermione Granger
had fired at him, his muscles twisting with the need to dodge in the
wrong direction—she’d pointed to his left, and then with a mysterious
twitch fired right—

Hermione dodged the fast-moving duelling hex, and cried with hardly
another moment’s pause, “Steleus!”, a wide-angle Hex that Draco couldn’t
avoid, but he managed to point his wand at his own face and cry
“Quiescus!” before the sudden urge to inhale could devolve into a
sneezing fit that would’ve ended the battle.

Draco Malfoy was already half-exhausted from all the Locking Charms and
Transfigurations earlier, but his confusion was beginning to give way to
a sense of his own blood boiling, he didn’t know why Granger was
attacking him so angrily all of a sudden, but if she wanted a fight he’d
give her one—

(The Dragons and Sunnies weren’t stopping to watch the duel of their
Generals, the Dragons were too disciplined to stop and watch and that
meant the Sunnies had to go on fighting too; but the gaping audience in
the Hogwarts Quidditch stands were being distracted even from Neville
and Daphne’s spectacle, shifting their eyes to the duel of two Generals
as Malfoy and Granger fired hex after hex and jinx after jinx at each
other, casting more rapidly than any other student in their year could
have managed, the Dragon General’s trained duelling dance matched by the
Sunshine General’s frantic energy, the combat between them beginning to
resemble an adult duel as the two most magically powerful first-years
resorted to spells more exotic than the usual Sleep Hex.)

—although, Draco was beginning to realize, when he and Harry and
Professor Quirrell had dismissed Miss Granger as having as much intent
to kill as a bowl of wet grapes, they’d never seen her angry.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Daphne lashed out with her Ancient Blade, again not trying to hit hard
but just moving the Blade as fast as possible, at the same time Hannah
cried “Somnium!” and Neville leapt back again, but it had been another
bluff and Hannah was moving in to fire a real spell almost point-blank—

—and Neville Longbottom did exactly what—he would explain
afterwards—Cedric Diggory had trained him to do if he was fighting
Bellatrix Black, which was to spin around and kick Hannah really hard in
the pit of her stomach.

The Hufflepuff girl made a sad little sound, a gasping cry of pain, as
she was knocked off her feet by the hard shoe sinking into her abdomen
with the force of Neville’s whole body behind it.

For an instant the battlefield stood still, everything halted except
Hannah’s falling form.

Then Neville’s face turned to absolute dismay and he lowered his wand,
the Chaotic Lieutenant starting instinctively toward his House-mate as
he reached for her with his other hand—

Even as Hannah turned her fall into a roll and came out with her wand
raised and shot him.

A fractional second later, Daphne, who hadn’t hesitated either, sank her
Most Ancient Blade squarely into Neville’s back, causing the Chaotic
Lieutenant’s muscles to jerk convulsively with the stunning magic
discharging into him even as Hannah’s Sleep Hex took effect, and then
the last scion of Longbottom was sprawled still on the ground with a
look of total surprise frozen to his face.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Today Mr Longbottom has learned a valuable lesson about his feelings of
pity and remorse,” said Professor Quirrell.

“And chivalry,” said Amelia, sipping her tea again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Are you all right?” whispered Daphne, as she stood protectively over
where Hannah lay on the ground clutching her stomach. The girl didn’t
give anything back in reply except more retching sounds that sounded
like Hannah was trying not to throw up while trying not to cry.

Somehow, even though it might not have been good tactics—it would’ve
been better if Hannah had been hexed outright, than for other soldiers
to be tied up protecting her—a number of Sunnies seemed to be standing
in front of Hannah with their wands clutched tightly, staring angrily at
the Chaotics. Someone had thrown up a Prismatic barrier between the two
groups, Daphne couldn’t see who.

And for some reason the Chaotics didn’t seem to be pressing the attack.
Even Tracey had completely dropped the grim look on her face and was
shifting her weight nervously from one foot to another, as though she
was having trouble remembering which side she was on—

“Hold!” shouted a voice. “Hold battle!”

There wasn’t much battle going on anyway, but it held.

General Potter, looking every inch the Boy-Who-Lived, strode out from
the trees with something large and camouflage-cloth-covered held under
one arm.

“Is Miss Abbott breathing all right?” General Potter yelled.

Daphne didn’t look back. She didn’t trust that this wasn’t a trap—it was
absolutely certain that if the Chaotics took the opportunity to attack,
Professor Quirrell would not only rule it legal but also award them
extra points afterwards. But Daphne could hear the answer well enough
with her ears, it wasn’t like Hannah was trying to breathe quietly, and
so she said, “Sort of.”

“She should get out of here and to someone who can use healing Charms,”
Harry said. “Just in case that broke something.”

From behind Daphne, a small gasping voice said, “I—can—still—fight—”

“Miss Abbott, don’t—” Harry said, just as there was the sound from
behind Daphne of someone collapsing back to the grass after trying and
failing to get to her feet. Everyone winced, but Daphne didn’t turn her
back on Harry.

“Why haven’t the teachers stopped the battle?” said Susan, her voice
angry.

“I expect it’s because Miss Abbott is in no danger of permanent damage
and Professor Quirrell thinks we’re learning valuable lessons,” Harry
said in a hard voice. “Look, Miss Abbott, if you go, Tracey will also
retire from the battle. You already outnumber us, so that’s a very good
deal for your side. Please take it.”

“Hannah, just go!” said Daphne. “I mean, just say you’re out!”

When Daphne glanced back she saw that Hannah was shaking her head, still
curled up in a ball on the grass.

“Oh, screw this,” said Harry. “Chaotics! The faster we stun them, the
faster she’s out of here! We’re going to do this very quickly, even if
we take casualties! End truce! TUNAFISH!”

Daphne’s political hindbrain had only an instant to admire how Harry’s
few words had just made the Chaotics the good guys, and then in almost
perfect unison, the Chaotics were plunging their hands into the pockets
of their uniforms and drawing out green sunglasses in an unfamiliar
style. Not like anything you would wear to the beach, more like goggles
for advanced Potions—

Then Daphne realized what was about to happen and snapped up her other
hand to shield her eyes, just as Harry ripped the cloth off the
cauldron.

The fluid that spilled forth as Harry Potter threw the cauldron’s
contents into the air was too bright to be seen, too brilliant to be
imagined, incandescent like the Sun magnified a dozen times—

(which was exactly what it was)

(the sunlight which had been invested to create the acorns, the bright
energy that had fuelled a tree rising up from the bare dirt)

(blazing a searing purple, the colour of the mixed blue and red
wavelengths that chlorophyll absorbed)

(with almost none of the green wavelengths that chlorophyll reflected to
create the green colour of leaves)

(which was the colour of the Chaos Legion’s sunglasses, made to pass
through green wavelengths, blocking red and blue, reducing even the most
incandescent purple glare to something bearable)

—the violet light blazed on and on, Daphne tried dropping her arm from
her eyes but found that she couldn’t look directly at anything, even the
second-hand purple glare was so bright she had to squint; and she had
only time to cry one Finite Incantatem, which didn’t work, before a
Sleep Hex took her.

What was left of the battle didn’t take very long after that.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“NOW!” bellowed Blaise Zabini, formerly of Sunshine, now commanding a
detachment of Chaos Legionnaires. “I mean, TUNAFISH!” The Slytherin
boy’s hand grasped the cloth shielding the cauldron from the triggering
touch of daylight, already beginning to move it aside.

“NOW!” bellowed Dean Thomas, formerly of Chaos, commanding a consignment
of Dragon Warriors. “DO WHATEVER THEY DO!”

The Chaotics of Zabini’s detachment plunged their hands into their
uniform pockets, and came forth bearing green sunglasses—

—an action almost perfectly mirrored by Dean and the Dragon Warriors,
who drew forth green-coloured Potions goggles, and quickly drew the
straps over their own heads, even as the Chaotics put on their
sunglasses and the violet incandescence blasted forth.

(As General Malfoy had explained, if Mr Goyle reported that the Chaos
Legion was wearing green-coloured Potions goggles, you didn’t have to
know why to Transfigure some copies.)

“THAT’S CHEATING!” shrieked Blaise Zabini.

“THAT’S TECHNIQUE!” Dean yelled back. “DRAGONS, CHARGE!”

(“Pardon me,” the Lady Greengrass said. “Could you stop laughing like
that, Mr Quirrell? It’s unnerving.”)

“FINITE THEIR GOGGLES!” shouted Blaise Zabini, as the two armies ran
headlong toward each other through omnipresent eye-searing purple glare.
“WE CAN STILL WIN!”

“YOU HEARD HIM!” bellowed Dean. “GET THEIR GLASSES!”

Blaise Zabini’s reply to this wasn’t anything articulate.

That battle went on a lot longer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Stupefy!” shrieked the Sunshine General.

Draco didn’t dodge, he didn’t counter, he didn’t have enough energy left
for either, all he could do was whip his left hand into position and
hope—

The red stun bolt dissipated again on Draco’s Colloportused glove, which
he’d Transfigured and spell-locked to his hand the same as the rest of
Dragon Army. It was all that was saving him now, that shield.

It should have been a time to counter-attack, but Draco could only catch
his breath, as the two of them danced backward and forward beneath the
trees in the never-ending movements of their duel. Across from him,
General Granger was panting hard, the young girl’s face glistening with
sweat like dew, her chestnut hair wetted into brown plaits. Her
camouflage uniform was stained with damp spots, her shoulders visibly
trembling with exhaustion, but her wand was still steel-steady where it
stayed level on Draco through all their motion. Her eyes glaring, her
cheeks flushed with rage.

So, little girl, why’re you pretending to fight like a grown-up today?

The taunt came to mind, but he didn’t really think he needed Granger any
angrier; so instead Draco just said—though he could hear his own voice
cracking—“Any reason you’re feeling mad at me, Granger?”

The girl was gasping for breath herself, her own voice wobbling as she
spoke. “I know what you’re up to,” said Hermione Granger, her voice
rising. “I know what you and Snape are up to, Malfoy, and I know who’s
behind it!”

“Huh?” Draco said without even thinking about it.

That only seemed to increase Granger’s fury, and her fingers whitened on
the wand she held levelled on him.

And then Draco got it, and it boiled his own blood in his veins. Even
she thought he was secretly plotting against her—

“YOU TOO?” Draco yelled. “I HELPED YOU, YOU BUCKTOOTHED BINT! YOU, YOU,
YOU,”—stuttering past all the Dark curses that came to mind until he
found something he could actually cast at her—“DENSAUGEO!”

But Granger flashed and whirled around the Tooth-Lengthening Hex, and
then her own wand came around and levelled at almost point-blank range,
even as Draco brought up his left hand like a shield, placing the
magic-locked glove between himself and whatever she was about to fire,
and the Sunshine General’s own voice rose to a shriek audible across the
whole battleground—

“ALOHOMORA!”

Time should have paused.

But it didn’t.

Instead the padlock clicked and fell off the glove.

Just like that.

Just like that.

The screens showed it all very clearly, to the entire watching Hogwarts
stadium.

And the bone-dead-silent hush that fell over every bench in every stand
said that everyone understood quite clearly what it meant, that the
scion of House Malfoy had just had his magic overcome by a Muggle-born.

Hermione Granger didn’t pause in her fight, gave no sign that she even
knew what she’d done; instead her foot snapped out in a Muggle-style
kick that knocked Draco’s wand cleanly out of his hand, his shocked mind
and body moving just a little too slowly. Draco dove after his wand,
scrabbling frantically on the ground, but from behind him a girl’s
cracking voice said “Somnium!” and Draco Malfoy fell and didn’t rise
again.

There was another moment of frozen silence. The Sunshine General was
wobbling on her feet, looking like she might faint.

Then the Dragon Warriors screamed at the top of their lungs and charged
forward to avenge their fallen commander.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr and Mrs Davis were shaking as they stood up from the comfortable
chairs of the faculty Quidditch box; they couldn’t quite clutch each
other while walking, but they held hands tightly, pretending hard to be
invisible. If they’d been children young enough for accidental magic
they probably would’ve spontaneously Disillusioned themselves.

The elderly Charles Nott said nothing as he stood from his chair. The
scarred Lord Jugson said nothing, as he stood from his own chair.

Lucius Malfoy said nothing as he stood.

All three of them turned without pause and strode toward the stairwell
of the elevated stands, moving in eerie unison like an Auror trio—

“Lord Malfoy,” the Defence Professor said in mild tones. That man was
still seated in his own chair, looking upon his parchment-like screens,
arms limp at his side, as though for some reason he didn’t feel like
moving.

The white-haired man halted just before reaching the exit archway, and
the elderly man and the scarred man halted as well, flanking him. Lord
Malfoy’s head turned, too slightly to be any form of acknowledgement,
but in the Defence Professor’s direction.

“Your son performed exceptionally well today,” said Professor Quirrell.
“I must confess that I underestimated him. And he has earned his army’s
loyalty, as you have witnessed.” Still very mild, the Defence
Professor’s voice. “Speaking as your son’s teacher, it is my opinion
that he will not benefit if you interfere in his—”

Lord Malfoy and his compatriots vanished down the stairs.

“A fine try, Quirinus,” Dumbledore said quietly. The old wizard’s face
showed small lines of worry; he hadn’t risen from his own seat either,
staring at the parchment screens as though they were still active. “Do
you think he will listen?”

The Defence Professor’s shoulders twitched in a slight shrug, the only
movement they’d shown since the battle ended.

“Well,” said the Lady Greengrass, as she rose up and cracked her
knuckles, stretching, her husband silent beside her. “I must say, that
was quite… interesting…”

Amelia Bones had risen from her own cushioned seat without any fuss.
“Interesting indeed,” said Director Bones. “I do confess, I find myself
disturbed by the skill with which those children were fighting one
another.”

“The skill?” Lord Greengrass said. “Their spells didn’t seem all that
impressive to me. Except for Daphne’s, of course.”

The old witch did not move her eyes from where she was gazing at the
Defence Professor’s balding head. “The Stunning Hex is not a first-year
spell, Lord Greengrass, but that is not the skill I had in mind. They
supported each other with those simple spells, they reacted at speed to
surprises…” The Director of the DMLE paused, as though searching for
words that a mere civilian could understand. “In the midst of battle,”
she said finally, “with spells flying in every direction… those children
seemed quite at home.”

“Indeed, Director Bones,” said the Defence Professor. “Some arts are
best begun in youth.”

The old witch’s eyes narrowed. “You are readying them to become a
military force, Professor. To what end?”

“Now hold on!” interjected Lord Greengrass. “There’s plenty of schools
where they teach duelling in first year!”

“Duelling?” said the Defence Professor. From behind it wasn’t visible if
the pale face was smiling. “That is nothing, Lord Greengrass, to what my
students have learned. They have learned not to hesitate in the face of
ambushes and greater foes. They have learned to adapt when combat
conditions change and change again. They have learned to protect their
allies, to protect more those who are more valuable, to abandon pieces
which cannot be rescued. They have learned that to survive they must
follow orders. Some have even learned a little creativity. Oh, no, Lord
Greengrass, these wizards will not hide in their manors and wait to be
protected, when the next threat comes. They will know that they know how
to fight.”

Augusta Longbottom loudly clapped her hands together three times.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We won.

It was the first thing Draco heard when he woke up on the battlefield,
Padma telling him how his soldiers had rallied after he fell. How,
thanks to the Dragon General’s foresight, Mr Thomas had led his
detachment to victory over Chaos. How General Potter had defeated the
portion of the Sunshine Regiment that clashed with him. How Mr Thomas’s
Dragon Warriors had rejoined the main body of soldiers bearing both
their own goggles and the sunglasses of the defeated Chaotics. How, only
moments later, General Potter’s remaining contingent had attacked both
other armies with a potion that emitted searing purple light. But Dragon
had held the numerical advantage over Sunshine and Chaos both, and
enough sunglasses for their warriors; and so Padma had managed to lead
her inherited army to victory.

From the light in Padma’s eyes and her arrogant smile that would have
done proud to a Malfoy, she was expecting congratulations. Draco managed
to grit out some form of praise from between his clenched teeth, and
couldn’t have said afterwards what it was. The foreign-born witch, it
appeared, hadn’t any idea what’d happened, or what it meant.

I lost.

The Dragons trudged back to Hogwarts beneath grey skies, cold droplets
landing heavy on Draco’s skin, one by one. While he’d been stunned, it
had begun, the long-promised rain finally beginning to fall. There was
only one option left to Draco now. A forced move, as Mr Macnair, who’d
taught Draco chess, would have termed it. Harry Potter probably wouldn’t
like it, if he really was in love with Granger the way everyone said.
But the forced move, as Mr Macnair had defined it, was one you needed to
make if you wanted the game to continue at all.

It kept on playing in Draco’s mind, over and over again, even as he
walked like an automaton through the massive portals of Hogwarts, sent
away Vincent and Gregory with two sharp words, and became alone within
his private bedroom, sitting on his bed, staring at the wall above his
desk. Filling his mind like a Dementor had locked him into the memory.

The padlock on his glove clicking and falling away—

Draco knew, he knew what he’d done wrong. He’d been so tired after
casting twenty-seven Locking Charms for all the other Dragon Warriors.
Less than a minute wasn’t enough time to recover after each spell. And
so he’d just cast Colloportus on his own padlocked glove, just cast the
spell, not put in all his strength to bind it stronger than Harry Potter
or Hermione Granger could undo.

But nobody was going to believe that, even if it was true. Even in
Slytherin, nobody would believe that. It sounded like an excuse, and an
excuse was all that anyone would hear.

Granger whirled and spun and screamed ‘ALOHOMORA!’—

Draco’s mind kept playing it over and over as the resentment built. He’d
helped Granger—cooperated with her on banning traitors—held her hand as
she’d dangled off the roof—stopped a riot from breaking out around her
in the Great Hall—did she have any idea what he’d risked, what he’d
probably already lost, what it meant for the heir of House Malfoy to do
that for a mudblood—

And now there was only one move left, and the thing about a forced move
was that you had to make it, even if it meant getting detention and
losing House points. Professor Snape would know and understand, but
there were limits (Father had warned him) to what the Potions Master
would overlook.

Challenge Granger to a wizard’s duel, in open defiance of Hogwarts
regulations. Attack her outright, if she tried to refuse. Defeat her
one-on-one, in public, not with clever duelling technique, but by
overpowering her magic. Beat her solidly, completely, crush her as
utterly as the Dark Lord himself had crushed his enemies. Make it
absolutely clear to everyone, so that nobody could possibly doubt, that
Draco had just been exhausted from casting the spell so many times.
Prove that the Malfoy blood was stronger than any mudblood’s—

Only it’s not, Harry Potter’s voice whispered inside Draco’s mind. It’s
easy to forget what’s really true, Draco, once you start trying to win
at politics. But in reality there’s only one thing that makes you a
wizard, remember?

Draco knew, then, he knew the reason for the disquiet in the back of his
mind, as he stared at the blank wall above his desk contemplating his
forced move. It should’ve been simple—when you only had one move, the
thing to do was make it—but—

Granger whirling, spinning, sweat-dampened hair flying around her, bolts
flying from her wand as fast as his own, jinx and counter-jinx, glowing
bats flying at his face, and through all of it the look of fury in
Granger’s eyes—

There’d been a part of him admiring that, before it had all gone wrong,
admiring Granger’s fury and power; a part of him that had exulted in the
first real fight he’d ever been in, against…

…an equal opponent.

If he challenged Granger, and lost…

It ought not to be possible, Draco had got his wand two full years
before anyone else in his Hogwarts class.

Only there was a reason why they usually didn’t bother giving wands to
nine-year-olds. Age counted too, it wasn’t just how long you’d held a
wand. Granger’s birthday had been only a few days into the year, when
Harry had bought her that pouch. That meant she was twelve now, that
she’d been twelve almost since the start of Hogwarts. And the truth was,
Draco hadn’t been practising much outside of class, probably not nearly
as much as Hermione Granger of Ravenclaw. Draco hadn’t thought he needed
any more practice to stay ahead…

And Granger was exhausted too, whispered the Voice of Contrary Evidence
inside him. Granger must have been exhausted from all those Stunning
Hexes, and even in that state she’d been able to undo his Locking Charm.

And Draco could not afford to challenge Granger publicly, one-on-one
with no excuses, and lose.

Draco knew what you were supposed to do in this sort of situation. You
were supposed to cheat. But if anyone discovered Draco cheating, it
would be disastrous, perfect blackmail material even if it never got out
publicly, and any Slytherins watching would know that, they’d be
looking…

And then, if you were watching, you would have seen Draco Malfoy get up
from his bed, and go to his desk, and take out a sheet of the finest
sheepskin parchment, and a pearl-carven inkwell, filled with
greenish-silver ink that had been made with true silver and crushed
emeralds. From the great trunk at his bed’s foot, the Slytherin drew
forth a book bound also in silver and emeralds, entitled The Etiquette
of the Houses of Britain. And with a new, clean quill, Draco Malfoy
began to write, frequently looking to the book where it lay open as a
reference. There was a grim smile on the boy’s face, making the young
Malfoy look very much like his father, as he carefully drew each letter
as though it were a separate artwork.

From Draco, son of Lucius son of Abraxis Lords of the Noble and Most
Ancient House of Malfoy, son also of Narcissa daughter of Druella Lady
of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Black, scion and heir of the
Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy:

To Hermione, the first Granger:

(That form might have been meant to sound polite, long ago when it had
been invented; nowadays, after centuries of being used to address
mudbloods, it carried a lovely tinge of refined venom.)

I, Draco, of Most Ancient House, demand redress, for

Draco paused, carefully moving the quill aside so that it wouldn’t drip.
He needed a pretext for this, at least if he wanted to impose the duel’s
conditions. The challenged had the choice of terms unless they had
insulted a Noble House. He needed to make it look like Granger had
insulted him…

What was he thinking? Granger had insulted him.

Draco flipped the book to the page of standard formulæ, and found one
that seemed appropriate.

I, Draco, of Most Ancient House, demand redress, for that I have thrice
over helped you and offered you only my goodwill, and in return you
falsely accused me of plotting against you,

Draco had to stop and take a breath, forcing down the seething anger; he
was starting to genuinely feel the insult now, and he’d just written out
the last phrase and underlined it without thinking, like it was an
ordinary letter. After a moment’s reflection, he decided to let it
stand; it might not be the exact formal phrasing but it had a raw, angry
tone that seemed appropriate.

which insult you committed before the eyes of Britain.

Thus I, Draco, compel you, Hermione, by custom, by law, by

“The seventeenth ruling of the thirty-first Wizengamot,” Draco said
aloud without looking, a line delivered in many plays; he sat straighter
as he said it, feeling every pulse of the noble blood in his veins.

Thus I, Draco, compel you, Hermione, by custom, by law, by the 17th
ruling of the 31st Wizengamot, to meet me in wizard’s duel with terms:
that we each come alone and in silence, speaking to none before or
after,

If the duel went poorly, Draco could just say nothing and leave it at
that. And if he did defeat Granger, he would have learned experimentally
that he could beat her again in a public challenge. It wasn’t cheating,
but it was Science, which was almost as good.

contesting by magic solely, without death or lasting injury,

…where? Draco had been told about a room in Hogwarts that was good for
duels, where everything valuable was already protected by wards, and
there were no portraits to tattle on you… which one had it been again…

in the trophy room of the Castle of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
and Wizardry,

And their second and public duel had better be soon, like tomorrow, it
would take very little time for his reputation in Slytherin to go
irretrievably to sludge. He needed to fight Granger for the first time
tonight.

upon midnight’s stroke that shall end this very day.

Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy.

Draco signed the formal parchment, and then drew forth his ordinary and
lesser parchment, and his regular ink, for his post scriptum:

If you don’t know how the rules work, Granger, here’s how it is. You
insulted a Most Ancient House, and I’ve got the lawful right to
challenge. And if you affront the conditions of the duel, like by having
Flitwick show up at the trophy room, or even just telling anyone else,
my father will take you and your false honour straight to the
Wizengamot.

Draco Malfoy

On the last letter his quill pressed down on the parchment so viciously
that the nib snapped off, creating a streak of ink and a small rip in
the parchment, which Draco decided also looked appropriate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

That night at dinner time, Susan Bones came to Harry Potter and told him
that she thought Draco Malfoy was going to carry out his plot against
Hermione very soon. She was warning all the members of SPHEW, and she’d
warned Professor Sprout, and she’d warned Professor Flitwick, and she
was going to send a letter to her Aunt tonight, and now she was warning
Harry Potter, too. Only they couldn’t quite talk about it with
Padma—Susan said, looking very serious—because Padma was feeling torn
between her loyalty to Hermione and her loyalty to her General.

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, who was at this point feeling more
frustrated with the entire situation than anything really productive,
snapped at her that yes, he knew something had to be done.

After Susan Bones left, Harry looked over at the other end of the
Ravenclaw table, where Hermione had sat down away from him or Padma or
Anthony or any of her other friends.

But Hermione didn’t look like she was in a mood where somebody going
over and bothering her would be taken very well.

Later, looking backward, Harry would think of how, in his SF and fantasy
novels, people always made their big, important choices for big,
important reasons. Hari Seldon had created his Foundation to rebuild the
ashes of the Galactic Empire, not because he would look more important
if he could be in charge of his own research group. Raistlin Majere had
severed ties with his brother because he wanted to become a god, not
because he was incompetent at personal relationships and unwilling to
ask for advice on how to do better. Frodo Baggins had taken the Ring
because he was a hero who wanted to save Middle-Earth, not because it
would’ve been too awkward not to. If anyone ever wrote a true history of
the world—not that anyone ever could or would—probably 97% of all the
key moments of Fate would turn out to be constructed of lies and tissue
paper and trivial little thoughts that somebody could’ve just as easily
thought differently.

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres looked at Hermione Granger, where she’d
sat down at the other end of the table, and felt a sense of reluctance
to bother her when she looked like she was already in a bad mood.

So then Harry thought that it probably made more sense to talk to Draco
Malfoy first, just so that he could absolutely positively definitely
assure Hermione that Draco really wasn’t plotting against her.

And later on after dinner, when Harry went down to the Slytherin
basement and was told by Vincent that the boss ain’t to be disturbed…
then Harry thought that maybe he should see if Hermione would talk to
him right away. That he should just get started on unravelling the whole
mess before it ravelled any further. Harry wondered if he might just be
procrastinating, if his mind had just found a clever excuse to put off
something unenjoyable-but-necessary.

He actually thought that.

And then Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres decided that he’d just talk to
Draco Malfoy the next morning instead, after Sunday breakfast, and then
talk to Hermione.

Human beings did that sort of thing all the time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was Sunday morning, on the 5th of April, 1992, and the simulated sky
above the Great Hall of Hogwarts showed great torrents of rain pouring
down in such density that the lightning flashes were diminished and
scattered into small pulses of white light that sometimes transformed
the House tables, paling their faces and making all the students appear
briefly to be ghosts.

Harry sat at the Ravenclaw table, wearily eating a waffle, waiting for
Draco to make an appearance so that he could get started on sorting this
whole thing out. There was a Quibbler being passed around which had
somehow ended up with Hannah and Daphne on the front page, but it hadn’t
reached his place yet.

A few minutes later Harry finished eating his waffle, and then looked
around again to see if Draco had arrived yet for breakfast at the
Slytherin table.

It was odd.

Draco Malfoy was almost never late.

Since Harry was looking in the direction of the Slytherin table, he
didn’t see Hermione Granger entering through the huge doors of the Great
Hall. Thus he was rather startled when he turned back and discovered
Hermione sitting down directly beside him at the Ravenclaw table, just
as if she hadn’t not done that for more than a week.

“Hi, Harry,” Hermione said, her voice sounding almost exactly normal.
She started to put toast on her plate and a selection of healthy fruits
and vegetables. “How are you?”

“Within one standard deviation of my own peculiar little average,” Harry
automatically replied. “How are you doing? Did you sleep okay?”

There were dark bags under Hermione Granger’s eyes.

“Why, yes, I’m fine,” said Hermione Granger.

“Um,” Harry said. He took a slice of pie onto his plate (as his brain
was occupied with other things, Harry’s hand simply took the tastiest
thing within range, without evaluating complex concepts like whether he
was ready to eat dessert). “Um, Hermione, I’m going to need to talk to
you later today, is that okay?”

“Sure,” said Hermione. “Why wouldn’t it be?”

“Because—” Harry said. “I mean—you and I haven’t—for the last few days—”

Shut up, suggested an internal part of Harry that seemed to have been
recently allocated for governing Hermione-related issues.

Hermione Granger didn’t look like she was paying much attention to him
in any case. She just stared down at her plate, and then, after about
ten seconds of awkward silence, began to eat her tomato slices, one
after another, without pause.

Harry looked away from her and began to eat a slice of pie which, he
discovered, had somehow materialized on his plate.

“So!” Hermione Granger suddenly said after she’d polished off most of
her plate in silence. “Anything happening today?”

“Um…” Harry said. He looked around frantically, as though to find
something-happening that he could use as conversational fodder.

And so Harry was one of the first to see it, and wordlessly point,
although the sudden swell of whispers that swept through the Great Hall
showed that a number of other people had seen it too.

The distinctive crimson tinge of the robes would have been recognizable
anywhere, but it still took Harry’s brain a few moments to place the
faces. An Asianish-looking man, solemn, and today looking rather grim. A
man with a piercing gaze that swept over the room, his long black hair
waving behind him in a ponytail. A man thin and pale and unshaven, with
a face so blank that it was like stone. It took Harry a few moment to
place the faces, and remember the names, from that long-ago day in
January when the Dementor had come to Hogwarts: Komodo, Butnaru,
Goryanof.

“An Auror trio?” Hermione said in a strange bright voice. “Why, I wonder
what they’d be doing here.”

Dumbledore was in their company as well, looking as worried as Harry had
ever seen him; and after a moment’s pause while the old wizard’s eyes
scanned the Great Hall and the students whispering over their
breakfasts, he pointed—

—straight at Harry.

“Oh, now what,” Harry said under his breath. His inward thoughts were a
lot more panicked than that, as he wondered frantically if anyone had
connected him to the Azkaban breakout somehow. He looked at the Head
Table, trying to make the glance casual, and realized that Professor
Quirrell was nowhere to be seen, this morning—

The Aurors swept toward him with swift strides, Auror Goryanof
approaching from the other side of the Ravenclaw table as though to
block any escape in that direction, Auror Komodo and Auror Butnaru
approaching from Harry’s side, the Headmaster following straight on
Komodo’s heels.

All conversation everywhere had ground to utter silence.

The Aurors reached Harry’s place at the table, surrounding him from
three angles.

“Yes?” Harry said, as normally as he could. “What is it?”

“Hermione Granger,” Auror Komodo said in a toneless voice, “you are
under arrest for the attempted murder of Draco Malfoy.”

79. Taboo Trade-offs, Part I

THE words dropped into Harry’s consciousness and shattered his thoughts
into a hundred shards of incredulity, the shock of adrenaline running
into so much confusion that—

“She—” Harry said. “She—she wouldn’t—What?”

The Aurors weren’t paying any attention to him. Komodo spoke again,
still in that colourless voice. “Mr Malfoy has regained consciousness in
St. Mungo’s and named you, Hermione Granger, as his assaulter. He has
repeated these accusations under two drops of Veritaserum. The
Blood-Cooling Charm you cast upon Mr Malfoy would have killed him if he
had not been found and treated, and it must be presumed known to you
that this was a fatal curse. I therefore arrest you upon the serious
charge of attempted murder and you will be taken into Ministry custody
to be interrogated under three drops of Veritaserum—”

“Are you mad?” the words burst out of Harry’s mouth, as he shoved
himself up from the Ravenclaw table, an instant before Auror Butnaru’s
hand clamped down hard upon his shoulder. Harry ignored it. “That’s
Hermione Granger you’re trying to arrest, the nicest girl in Ravenclaw,
she helps Hufflepuffs with their homework, she’d die before she tried to
kill anyone—”

Hermione Granger’s face had crumpled. “I did it,” she whispered in a
tiny voice. “It was me.”

Another huge rock fell on Harry’s thoughts and crushed their fragile
order, bursting fragments of comprehension into dust.

Dumbledore’s face seemed to have aged decades over the course of
seconds. “Why, Miss Granger?” Dumbledore said, his own voice barely
above a whisper. “Why would you do such a thing?”

“I’m,” Hermione said, “I’m, I’m—sorry—I don’t know why I—” She seemed to
collapse in on herself, her voice was formed of nothing but sobs, and
the only words that could be made out were, “I thought—killed
him—sorry—”

And Harry should have said something, should have done something, should
have jumped up out of his seat and stunned all three Aurors and then
gone on to some incredibly clever next move, but the twice-shattered
fragments of his thought processes could yield no output. Butnaru’s hand
pushed Harry gently but firmly back into his seat and Harry found
himself stuck there like he’d been glued, he tried to grab his wand for
a Finite and it wouldn’t come out of his pocket, the three Aurors and
Dumbledore escorted Hermione out of the Great Hall amid a rising storm
of outcries and the doors began to swing shut behind them—nothing made
sense, it was surreal beyond all reckoning, like he’d been transported
into an alternate universe, and then Harry’s mind flashed back to
another day of confusion and in a moment of desperate inspiration he
finally realized what the Weasley twins had done to Rita Skeeter, and
his voice rose in a scream, “HERMIONE YOU DIDN’T DO IT YOU’VE BEEN
FALSE-MEMORY-CHARMED!”

But the doors had already shut.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva couldn’t possibly have stood still, she paced back and forth
through the Headmaster’s office, the back of her mind half-expecting
Severus or Harry to tell her to shut up and sit down, but neither the
Potions Master or the Boy-Who-Lived seemed much concerned with her, both
of their gazes focused on Albus Dumbledore where he had emerged from the
Floo. There were sounds in the background that nobody heard. Severus
seemed as passionless as ever, sitting in a small cushioned chair beside
the Headmaster’s desk. The old wizard stood terrible and upright by the
still-burning fireplace, robed in black like a starless night, radiating
power and dismay. All her own thoughts were of utter confusion and
horror. Harry Potter sat on a wooden stool with his fingers gripping the
seat, and his eyes were fury and freezing ice.

At 6:33 a.m., Quirinus Quirrell had Flooed St. Mungo’s from his office
for immediate pickup of Draco Malfoy. Professor Quirrell had found
Mr Malfoy in the trophy room of Hogwarts, on the verge of death from the
continuing effects of the Blood-Cooling Charm slowly lowering his body
temperature. Professor Quirrell had immediately dispelled the Charm,
cast stabilizing spells on Mr Malfoy, and levitated him to his office to
Floo him to St. Mungo’s for further treatment. After this, Professor
Quirrell had informed the Headmaster, stating the facts briefly before
vanishing through the Floo; the Aurors, notified by St. Mungo’s, had
demanded his presence for questioning.

The clear intent of the Blood-Cooling Charm had been to kill Draco
Malfoy so slowly that the wards of Hogwarts, set to detect sudden
injury, would not trigger. Under interrogation, Professor Quirrell had
told the Aurors that he had cast several tracking Charms upon
Mr Malfoy’s person in January, shortly after Mr Malfoy’s return to
Hogwarts from the Christmas holidays. Professor Quirrell had cast
tracking Charms because he had learned of a person with a motive to harm
Mr Malfoy. Professor Quirrell had refused to identify this person. The
tracking Charms which Professor Quirrell had cast were triggered by
Mr Malfoy’s health falling below an absolute level, rather than by
sudden changes, and had therefore alerted Professor Quirrell before
Mr Malfoy had died.

Two drops of Veritaserum, sufficient to prevent Mr Malfoy from
withholding any meliorating or moderating information in his statements,
had shown that Mr Malfoy had—legally under the laws of Noble Houses,
illegally under the regulations of Hogwarts—challenged Hermione Granger
to a duel. Mr Malfoy had won the duel but had then, as he left, been
attacked from behind by Miss Granger with a Stunning Hex. After this
Mr Malfoy knew nothing.

Three drops of Veritaserum, requiring her to volunteer all relevant
information, had caused Hermione Granger to confess that she had stunned
Draco Malfoy from behind, and then, in a fit of anger, cast the
Blood-Cooling Charm on him, with the deliberate intention of killing him
slowly enough to evade identification from the Hogwarts wards, whose
workings she had read about in Hogwarts: A History. She had been
horrified at herself upon awakening the next morning, but had not told
anyone of what she’d done, believing Draco Malfoy to be already dead—as
he certainly would have been after seven hours, had his body’s own magic
not been resisting the effects of the Blood-Cooling Charm.

“Her trial,” said Albus Dumbledore, “is set for tomorrow at noon.”

“What?” the word burst out of Harry Potter. The Boy-Who-Lived didn’t
rise from his chair, but Minerva saw his fingers whiten where they
gripped the wooden seat beneath him. “That’s insane! You can’t do a
police investigation in one day—”

The Potions Master raised his voice. “This is not Muggle Britain,
Mr Potter!” Severus’s face was as expressionless as ever, but the bite
in his voice was sharp. “The Aurors have an accusation under Veritaserum
and a confession under Veritaserum. So far as they are concerned, the
investigation is done.”

“Not quite,” said Dumbledore, just as Harry seemed ready to explode. “I
have insisted to Amelia that this matter be given the utmost scrutiny.
Unfortunately, as the ill-fated duel was at midnight—”

“Supposed duel,” Harry said sharply.

“As the supposed duel was at midnight—yes, you’re quite right, Harry—it
is beyond the range of any Time-Turner—”

“Also supposedly,” the Boy-Who-Lived said coldly. “And rather
suspiciously, since the alleged murder suspect doesn’t know about
Time-Turners. I hope that an invisible Auror was immediately sent back
in time as far as possible to observe—”

Dumbledore inclined his head. “I went myself, Harry, the moment I heard.
But by the time I reached the trophy room, Mr Malfoy was already
unconscious and Miss Granger had gone—”

“No,” said Harry Potter. “You reached the trophy room and saw Draco
unconscious. That is all you observed, Headmaster. You did not observe
Hermione there, or watch her leave. Let us distinguish observation from
inference.” The boy’s head turned to look at her. “Imperius,
Obliviation, False Memory Charm, Legilimency. Professor McGonagall, am I
leaving out any mind-affecting spell that could have made Hermione do
this or make her believe she’d done it?”

“The Confundus Charm,” she said. And the Dark Arts had never been her
study, but she knew—“And certain Dark rituals. But none of those could
be performed in Hogwarts without alarm.”

The boy nodded, his eyes still directly addressing her. “Which of those
spells can be detected? Which would the Aurors try to detect?”

“The Confundus Charm would wear off in a few hours,” she said, after a
moment to gather her thoughts. “Miss Granger would remember the
Imperius. Obliviation cannot be detected by any known means, but only a
Professor could have cast that spell upon a student without alarm from
the Hogwarts wards. Legilimency—can only be detected by another
Legilimens, I think—”

“I requested that Miss Granger be examined by the court Legilimens,”
said Dumbledore. “The examination showed—”

“Do we trust him?” said Harry.

“Her,” said Dumbledore. “Sophie McJorgenson, whom I remember as an
honest student of Ravenclaw, and she is bound by the Unbreakable Vow to
tell the truth of what she sees—”

“Could someone else be Polyjuiced as her?” Harry Potter interrupted
again. “What did you observe, Headmaster?”

Albus said heavily, “A person who looked like Madam McJorgenson told us
that a single Legilimens had lightly touched Miss Granger’s mind some
months ago. That is from January, Harry, when I communicated with
Miss Granger about the matter of a certain Dementor. That was expected;
but what I did not expect was the rest of what Sophie found.” The old
wizard turned to gaze into the Floo-fire, letting the orange flames
reflect on his face. “As you say, Harry, a False Memory Charm is one
possibility; they are, when cast perfectly, indistinguishable from true
memory—”

“That doesn’t surprise me,” Harry interrupted. “Studies show that human
memories are more or less rewritten every time we remember them—”

“Harry,” Minerva said softly, and the boy’s mouth clamped shut.

The old wizard continued. “—but a False Memory Charm of such quality
requires as much time to create as a true memory. Creating a detailed
memory of ten minutes would be ten minutes’ work. And according to the
court Legilimens,” Albus’s face now seemed more tired and lined than
before, “Miss Granger has been obsessing over Mr Malfoy since the day
that Severus… yelled at her. She has been thinking of how Mr Malfoy
might be in league with Professor Snape, how he might be planning to
harm her and harm Harry—imagining it for hours every day—it would be
impossible to create false memories for so much time.”

“The appearance of insanity…” Severus murmured softly, as though he were
speaking to himself. “Could it be natural? No, it is too disastrous to
be pure accident; too convenient for someone, I have no doubt. A Muggle
drug, perhaps? But that would not be enough—Miss Granger’s madness would
have to be guided—”

“Ah!” Harry said suddenly. “I get it now. The first False Memory Charm
was cast on Hermione after Professor Snape yelled at her, and showed,
say, Draco and Professor Snape plotting to kill her. Then last night
that False Memory was removed by Obliviation, leaving behind the
memories of her obsessing about Draco for no apparent reason, at the
same time she and Draco were given false memories of the duel.”

Minerva blinked in astonishment. It would have been a thousand years
before she thought of that possibility.

The Potions Master was frowning thoughtfully, eyes intent. “The reaction
to a False Memory Charm is hard to predict in advance, Mr Potter,
without Legilimency. The subjects do not always act as expected, when
they first remember the false memories. It would have been a risky ploy.
But I suppose that is one way Professor Quirrell could have done it.”

“Professor Quirrell?” said Harry. “What motive does he have to—”

The Potions Master said dryly, “The Defence Professor is always a
suspect, Mr Potter. You will notice a trend, given time.”

Albus raised up a hand, a silencing gesture, and their heads all turned
to look at him. “But in this case there is another suspect,” Albus said
quietly. “Voldemort.”

That deadliest of unspeakable words seemed to echo around the room,
cancelling all the heat from the orange flames of the fireplace.

“I do not know,” the old wizard said slowly, “I know all too little of
the methods of Voldemort’s immortality. He searched out those books
before I did, I think. All I could find were ancient tales, scattered
across too many volumes for him to remove. But to find truth among many
stories is also a wizard’s mastery, and this I have endeavoured to do.
There is a human sacrifice, a murder, of that I am certain; committed in
coldest blood, the victim dying in horror. And old, old tales of wizards
possessed, doing mad deeds, claiming the names of Dark Lords thought
defeated; and there is usually a device, of that Dark Lord, which they
wield…” Albus looked at Harry, the ancient eyes searching the younger.
“I think, Harry—though you will call it only inference—that the act of
murder splits the soul. That by ritual of blackest horror, the torn
fragment of soul is chained to this world. To a material thing of this
world. Which must be, or which then becomes, a device of power.”

Horcrux. The terrible name echoed in Minerva’s mind, though it seemed
that—for what reason she did not know—Albus would not speak that word in
front of Harry.

“And therefore,” the old wizard finished quietly, “the remainder of the
soul is bound to its chained part, lingering here when its body is
destroyed. A sad and painful existence, I think it would be; less than
spirit, less than the meanest ghost…” The old wizard’s eyes were locked
on Harry, who gazed back with his eyes narrowed. “It would take time for
that mutilated soul to regain a mockery of life. That is why we have had
our ten-year reprieve, I believe; why Voldemort did not return at once.
But in time… that revenant would become capable of rising again.” The
old wizard spoke with grim precision. “It is clear, from the stories,
that the Dark Lords who return by possessing another’s form, wield
lesser magics than they once knew. I do not think Voldemort would be
satisfied with that. He would take some other avenue to life. But
Voldemort was more Slytherin than Salazar, grasping at every
opportunity. He would use his pitiful state, use his power of
possession, if he had reason. If he could benefit by another’s…
inexplicable fury.” Albus’s voice had fallen to almost a whisper. “That
is what I suspect happened to Miss Granger.”

Minerva’s throat was very dry. “He’s here,” she gasped. “Here, in
Hogwarts—”

And stopped, because the reason Voldemort had come to Hogwarts—

The old wizard glanced at her only briefly, and said, still in that
whisper, “I am sorry, Minerva, you were right.”

Harry’s voice was edged. “Right about what?”

“Voldemort’s strongest avenue to life,” Dumbledore said heavily. “The
most desirable road for him, by which he would rise greater and more
terrible than ever before. It is guarded here, within this castle—”

“Excuse me,” Harry said politely. “Are you stupid?”

“Harry,” she said, but there was no force in her voice.

“I mean, maybe you haven’t noticed this, Headmaster Dumbledore, but this
castle is full of children—”

“I had no choice!” bellowed Dumbledore. The blue eyes were blazing now,
beneath the half-moon spectacles. “I do not own it, that thing which
Voldemort desires. It belongs to another, and is held here by his
consent! I asked if it could be kept in the Department of Mysteries. But
he would not permit that—he said it must be within the wards of
Hogwarts, in the place of the Founders’ protection—” Dumbledore passed
his hand across his forehead. “No,” the old wizard said in a quieter
voice. “I cannot pass this blame to him. He is right. There is too much
power in that thing, too much that men desire. I agreed that the trap
should be laid behind the wards of Hogwarts, in the place of my own
power.” The old wizard bowed his head. “I knew Voldemort would worm his
way here somehow, and planned to trap him. I did not think—I did not
dream—that he would tarry in an enemy fortress one minute longer than he
must.”

“But,” said Severus in some puzzlement, “what would the Dark Lord
possibly gain by killing Lucius’s only heir?”

“Point of order,” Harry Potter said, a hard edge in his voice. “The
motives of whoever’s behind this are not the primary issue. Our top
priority at this point is that an innocent Hogwarts student is in
trouble!”

The green eyes locked with the blue, as Albus Dumbledore gazed back at
the Boy-Who-Lived—

“Quite right, Mr Potter,” Minerva said, she hadn’t even thought about
it, the words just seemed to pop out of her lips. “Albus, who is
watching over Miss Granger now?”

“Professor Flitwick has gone to her,” the Headmaster said.

“She needs a lawyer,” Harry said. “Anyone who just blurts out ‘I did it’
to the police—”

“Unfortunately,” Minerva said, her tone taking on some of Professor
Dumbledore’s sternness without thinking, “I doubt an attorney will be
any use to Miss Granger at this point, Mr Potter. She is to face the
judgement of the Wizengamot, and they would be exceedingly unlikely to
free her on a technicality.”

Harry was looking at her with an utterly incredulous expression, as
though suggesting that Hermione Granger didn’t need an attorney was akin
to suggesting that she be set on fire.

“She is correct, Mr Potter,” Severus said quietly. “Few court processes
in this country involve solicitors.”

Harry lifted his glasses and rubbed his eyes, briefly. “Fine. How do we
get Hermione off the hook, exactly? I suppose it’s too much to hope that
with all the lawyers gone, the judges understand the concept of ‘common
sense’ and ‘prior probability’ well enough to realize that
twelve-year-old girls basically never commit cold-blooded murders?”

“It is the Wizengamot that she faces,” said Severus. “The oldest Noble
Houses, and certain other wizards of influence.” Severus’s face twisted
in something approaching his customary sarcasm. “As for them showing
common sense—you might as well expect them to make you a bacon sandwich,
Potter.”

Harry nodded, his mouth set. “Exactly what sort of penalty is Hermione
facing? Snapped wand and expulsion—”

“No,” Severus said. “Nothing that light. Are you wilfully
misunderstanding, Potter? She is facing the Wizengamot. There is no set
penalty. There is only the vote.”

Harry Potter murmured, “The rule of law, in complex times, has proved
itself deficient; we much prefer the rule of men, it’s vastly more
efficient… There’s no constraining legal rules at all, then?”

Light glinted off the old wizard’s half-moon glasses; he spoke
carefully, and not without anger. “Legally, Harry, we are dealing with a
blood debt from Hermione Granger to the House of Malfoy. The Lord of
Malfoy proposes a repayment of that debt, and then the Wizengamot votes
on his proposal. That is all.”

“But…” Harry said slowly. “Lucius was Sorted into Slytherin, he’s got to
realize that Hermione was just a pawn. Not the one he should actually be
angry at. Right?”

“No, Harry Potter,” Albus Dumbledore said heavily. “That is how you wish
Lucius Malfoy would think. Lucius Malfoy himself… will not share your
desire that he think that way.”

Harry gazed at the Headmaster, his eyes growing colder, at the same time
that Minerva herself had to clamp down harder on her own emotions, stop
her pacing and try to breathe. She’d been trying not to think about it,
trying to turn her thoughts away from it, but she knew. She’d known
since the instant she’d heard. She could see it in Albus’s eyes—

“Is she facing capital punishment?” Harry said quietly, and chills went
all the way down Minerva’s spine at the undertones of that voice.

“No!” Albus said. “No, not the Kiss, not Azkaban, not for a first-year
in Hogwarts. Our country is not so lost, not yet.”

“But Lucius Malfoy,” Severus said tonelessly, “certainly will not be
satisfied with only snapping her wand.”

“All right,” Harry said commandingly. “As I see it, we’ve got two
essential lines of attack. Line one, find the real culprit. Line two,
other leverage over Lucius. Professor Quirrell saved Draco’s life, does
that create a blood debt from House Malfoy to him that he could redeem
to cancel Hermione’s?”

Minerva blinked in astonishment again.

“No,” Dumbledore said. The old wizard shook his head. “It was a clever
thought—but no, Harry, I’m afraid not. There is an exception when the
Wizengamot suspects that the circumstances of a life-debt may have been
created deliberately. And the Defence Professor is hardly above
suspicion. Thus Lucius would argue.”

Harry nodded once, face set. “Headmaster, I know I said I wouldn’t—but
under the circumstances—that time Draco cast that torture hex on me, is
that debt enough—”

“No,” the old wizard said (even as she blurted “What?” and Severus
lifted an eyebrow). “It would not have been enough, and now it is no
debt at all. You are an Occlumens and cannot testify under Veritaserum.
Draco Malfoy could be Obliviated of his own memory before he could
testify—” Albus hesitated. “Harry… whatever you have done with Draco,
you must assume that Lucius Malfoy will soon know of it.”

Harry’s head sank into his hands. “He’ll give Draco Veritaserum.”

“Yes,” Albus said quietly.

The Boy-Who-Lived didn’t say anything, as he sat with his head in his
hands.

The Potions Master looked genuinely shocked. “Draco really was trying to
help Miss Granger,” Severus said. “You—Potter, you actually—”

“Turned him?” Harry said from between his hands. “I was about
three-quarters done. Taught him the Patronus Charm and everything. I
don’t know what will happen now, though.”

“Voldemort has struck a grave blow against us, this day,” Albus said.
The sound of old wizard’s voice was like the look of the boy with his
head in his hands. “He has taken two of our pieces, with one… No. I
should have seen it earlier. He has taken two of Harry’s pieces with one
move. Voldemort has begun his game again, not against myself, but
against Harry. Voldemort knows the prophecy, he knows who his last foe
shall be. He is not waiting to face Hermione Granger and Draco Malfoy at
Harry’s side when they are grown. He is striking at them now.”

“Maybe it’s You-Know-Who and maybe it isn’t,” Harry said, his voice
sounding a little unsteady. “Let’s not narrow down the hypothesis space
prematurely.” Harry took a breath and lowered his hands. “The other
thing we can try is to nail the real culprit before the trial—or at
least find solid evidence that someone else did it.”

“Mr Potter,” said Minerva, “Professor Quirrell told the Aurors that he
knew of someone with a motive to harm Mr Malfoy. Do you know who he was
talking about?”

“Yes,” Harry said, after a hesitation. “But I think I shall conduct that
part of my investigation with the Defence Professor—just as I would not
have Professor Quirrell in the room while we were discussing how to
investigate him.”

“He suspects me?” Severus said, then gave a short laugh. “Why, of course
he does.”

“My own plan,” said Harry, “is to go and look at the trophy room where
the supposed duel took place and see if I can discover anything
anomalous. If you can tell the investigating Aurors to let me through—”

“What investigating Aurors?” Severus said tonelessly.

Harry Potter took a deep breath, slowly let it out, and then spoke
again. “In mystery books it usually takes longer than one day to solve a
crime, but twenty-four hours is—no, thirty hours is eighteen hundred
minutes. And I can think of at least one other important place to look
for clues—though it’ll have to be someone who can get into the Ravenclaw
girls’ dorm. Back when Hermione was fighting bullies, she was finding
notes under her pillow each morning, telling her where to go—”

“Albus…” ground out Minerva.

“I did not send them,” said the old wizard. His white eyebrows had
lifted in surprise. “I knew nothing of this. You think she was being
played, Harry?”

“It’s a possibility,” Harry said. “More so, because there’s a part of
this puzzle that you don’t know about yet.” Harry’s voice lowered, grew
more intense. “Headmaster, you already know that I got my father’s
invisibility cloak from someone who left a note under my pillow, saying
it was an early Christmas present. I think we have to assume that’s the
same person who left notes for Hermione—”

“Harry,” the old wizard said, and hesitated momentarily. “Returning your
father’s cloak to you, does not seem to me like the act of a villain—”

“Listen,” Harry Potter said urgently. “The part you don’t know is that
after Bellatrix Black escaped from Azkaban, I found another note under
my pillow, signed ‘Santa Claus’, saying that they’d heard you were
shutting me up inside Hogwarts, and that they were giving me an escape
route to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America. That note came with a
deck of cards, in which the King of Hearts was supposedly a portkey—”

“Mr Potter!” cried Professor McGonagall, she hadn’t even thought before
she spoke. “That could well be a kidnapping attempt! You should have
told—”

“Yes, Professor, I did the sensible thing,” the boy said levelly. “As
adapted to the circumstances, I did the sensible thing. I told Professor
Quirrell. And according to Professor Quirrell, that portkey goes to
somewhere in London—it’s definitely not strong enough to be an
international portkey. Now it’s possible that the person who sent the
note is honest, and that the point in London is just a way station.” The
boy reached into his robes and took out a deck of cards, along with a
folded paper note. “I will trust you not to go in guns blazing—I mean
wands blazing—just in case the sender is an ally of mine, if not yours.
But if this is a trap, I say we spring it now. And whoever it is, take
them alive so we can exhibit them before the Wizengamot, I cannot
overemphasize that part.”

Severus rose from his chair, his eyes now intent, and moved toward
Harry. “I’ll need a hair of yours for Polyjuice, Mr Potter—”

“Let us not be hasty!” said Albus. “We have not yet examined the notes
sent to Miss Granger; there may be no resemblance after all. Severus,
would you enter her dorm and see if you can find those?”

Harry Potter’s eyebrows had raised, even as he stood to offer the
Potions Master better access to his unruly hair. “You think two
different people are running around Hogwarts leaving notes beneath
pillows?”

Severus gave a brief sardonic laugh, as his hand moved forward and
plucked a hair, which soon was being carefully wrapped in silk. “Quite
possibly. If I have learned anything in my tenure as Head of Slytherin,
I have learned what ridiculous messes arise when there is more than one
plotter and more than one plan. But Headmaster—I think Mr Potter is
correct that I should follow this portkey and see where it leads.”

Albus hesitated, and then nodded reluctantly. “I will speak to you
before you go, then.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even as Harry Potter left the room for his own investigations, Severus
spun on his heel and strode swiftly toward the jar of Floo powder, his
cloak rising behind him with his speed. “I’ll get some raw Polyjuice,
add the hair, and go. Headmaster, will you stand by to—”

“Albus,” Minerva said, surprised at how steady her own voice was, “did
you leave those notes under Mr Potter’s pillow?”

Severus’s hand halted an instant before casting Floo powder into the
fire.

Dumbledore nodded to her, though the accompanying smile seemed a bit
hollow. “You know me far too well, my dear.”

“And I suppose the portkey goes to a friendly home where Mr Potter would
be kept safe and sound until you arrived to pick him up and return him
to Hogwarts?” Her voice tight—it was sensible, she could not deny it was
sensible, but somehow it seemed a little cruel.

“It would depend on the circumstances,” the old wizard said quietly. “If
Harry had gone so far—I might have let him make good his escape, for a
time. Better to know where he was going, and ensure it was somewhere
safe, with friends—”

“And to think,” said Professor McGonagall, “that I had thought to
reprimand Mr Potter for not telling us about this important matter!
Upbraid him for not having the sense to trust us!” Her voice had risen
in volume. “I shall skip that lecture, I suppose!”

Severus was gazing at the Headmaster with narrowed eyes. “And the notes
to Miss Granger—”

“The Defence Professor, very likely,” the old wizard said. “Still—that
is only a guess.”

“I shall go and look for them,” Severus said. “And then, I suppose,
start looking for You-Know-Who.” A frown crossed the Potions Master’s
face. “A task which I haven’t the faintest idea of where to start. Do
you know of any magics to find a soul, Headmaster?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Divination classroom was lit by the dim red light of a hundred small
fires where burned a hundred kinds of incense, so that if you were to
ask for one word describing what the room looked like, the answer would
be ‘smoke’. (Assuming you bothered to look at anything, when your nose
was threatening to overload and die.) If your gaze could pierce those
dank mists, you would see a tiny, cluttered room in which forty stuffed
armchairs, most of them unused, were crammed around a small open space
in the centre of the room, where a circular trapdoor waited on your
escape.

“The grim!” Professor Trelawney said in a quavering voice, as she peered
into George Weasley’s teacup. “The grim! It is a sign of death! One whom
you know, George—someone you know is to die! And soon—yes, it shall be
quite soon, I think—unless of course it is later—”

It would have been a good deal scarier, thought Fred and George, if she
hadn’t said the same thing to every single other student in their
Divination class. They were hardly even thinking about it at this point;
all their thoughts were on today’s disaster—

The trapdoor in the floor flew open with a bang that caused Professor
Trelawney to shriek and spill George’s tea all over his robes, and then
an instant later Dumbledore was whooshing up out of the floor with a
bird of fire upon his shoulder.

“Fred!” the old wizard said commandingly. His robes were the black of a
moonless night, his eyes hard like blue diamonds. “George! With me,
now!”

There was an collective gasp and by the time Fred and George were
climbing down the ladder after the Headmaster, the entire class was
already speculating what role they’d played in the attempted murder of
Draco Malfoy.

The trapdoor had hardly slammed shut above them before all nearby sounds
muted and the old wizard spun on them and held out a hand and commanded,
“Give me the map!”

“M-map?” said Fred or George in total shock. They’d never even suspected
that Dumbledore suspected. “Why, w-we don’t know what you’re—”

“Hermione Granger is in trouble,” said the old wizard.

“The Map is in our dorm,” George or Fred said immediately. “Just give us
a few minutes to get it and we’ll—”

The wizard’s arms swept them up as if they were hugging-pillows, there
was a piercing cry and a flash of fire and then the three of them were
in the third-year Gryffindor boys’ dorm.

A few moments later, Fred and George were handing over the Map to the
Headmaster, wincing only slightly at the sacrilege of giving their
precious piece of the Hogwarts security system to the person who
actually owned it, and the old wizard was frowning at the apparent
blankness.

“You’ve got to say,” they explained, “I solemnly swear that I am up to
no good—”

“I decline to lie,” said the old wizard. He held the Map high and
bellowed, “Hear me, Hogwarts! Deligitor prodi!” An instant later the
Headmaster was wearing the Sorting Hat, which looked scarily right upon
his head, as though Dumbledore had always been waiting for a patchwork
pointed hat to complete his existence.

(Fred and George immediately memorized this phrase, just in case it
would work for somebody besides the Headmaster, and began trying to
think of pranks that would involve the Sorting Hat.)

The old wizard wasted not a moment before sweeping the Sorting Hat off
his head and turning it upside-down—it was hard to tell with the Hat
upside-down, but it looked a bit cross at the treatment—and then plunged
in his hand and drew out a crystal rod. With this instrument he began
tracing rune-like patterns on the Map, muttering strange incantations
that sounded not quite like Latin and echoed in their ears in an
unusually creepy fashion. In the midst of tracing one rune he looked up
at both of them, fixing them with a sharp glare. “I will return this to
you later, sons of Weasley. Go back to class.”

“Yes, Headmaster,” they said, and hesitated. “Ah—about Hermione Granger,
is she really going to be bound to serve Draco Malfoy forever as his—”

“Go,” said the old wizard.

They went.

When he was alone in the room, the old wizard looked down at the map,
which had now written upon itself a fine line drawing of the Gryffindor
dorms in which they stood, the small handwritten Albus P.W.B. Dumbledore
the only name left therein.

The old wizard smoothed the map, bent over it, and whispered, “Find Tom
Riddle.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The interrogation room at the Department of Magical Law Enforcement was
usually lit by a small orange light, so that the Auror interrogating you
would be leaning toward your uncomfortable metal chair with most of
their face in shadow, preventing you from reading their expression, even
as they read yours.

As soon as Mr Quirrell had entered the room, the small orange light had
dimmed and begun flickering like a candle about to be blown out by the
wind. The room was now lit by a sourceless ice-coloured glow which
illuminated all of Mr Quirrell’s pale skin like alabaster, except,
somehow, his eyes, which stayed in darkness.

The Auror on duty outside had surreptitiously tried to dispel this
effect four times without the slightest success, despite the fact that
Mr Quirrell had politely surrendered his wand upon being detained for
interrogation, and had shown no sign of speaking any incantations nor
exerting any other power.

“Quirinus… Quirrell,” drawled the man now sitting across from where the
Defence Professor had waited courteously. The interrogator had tawny
hair that swept back like a lion’s mane, with yellowish eyes set into
the sternly lined face of a man late in his tenth decade. The man was,
at this moment, leafing through a large folder of parchments that he had
taken from a black and very solid-looking briefcase after he had limped
into the room and sat down, seeming not to look at the face of the man
he was interrogating. He had not introduced himself.

After some further leafing through parchments, carried out in silence,
the Auror spoke again. “Born the 26th of September, 1955, to Quondia
Quirrell, of an acknowledged tryst with Lirinus Lumblung…” intoned the
Auror. “Sorted into Ravenclaw… O.W.L.s quite good… N.E.W.T.s in Charms,
Transfiguration… an Outstanding in Muggle Studies, impressive… Ancient
Runes, and ah yes, Defence. An Outstanding in that as well. Went on to
become quite the tourist, visiting all sorts of places. Portkey visas
for Transylvania, the Forbidden Empire, the City of Endless Night… my
my, Texas.” The man looked up from the portfolio, eyes narrowed. “What
were you doing there, Mr Quirrell?”

“Sightseeing, mostly in the Muggle areas,” the Defence Professor said
easily. “As you say, I am quite the tourist.”

The man listened to this with a frown, then looked back down, then up
again. “I also see that you visited Fuyuki City in 1983.”

The Defence Professor lifted an eyebrow in mild puzzlement. “What of
it?”

“What did you do in Fuyuki City?” The question snapped out razor-sharp.

The Defence Professor frowned slightly. “Nothing of any account. I
visited some better-known sights, some less-known sights, and aside from
that, kept to myself.”

“Really?” the Auror said softly. “I find that reply rather interesting.”

“How so?” said the Defence Professor.

“Because there was no visa listed for Fuyuki City.” The man slammed the
folder shut. “You’re not Quirinus Quirrell. Who the hell are you?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Potions Master walked quietly into the Ravenclaw girls’ dorm, the
first-year dorm, a festive place where bronze and blue competed to be
the colour of stuffed animals, scarves and dresses, small bits of
inexpensive jewellery, and posters of famous people. Hermione Granger’s
bed was easy to identify; it was the one that had been attacked by a
book monster.

Nobody else seemed to be around, at that time of day, and a number of
spells verified this.

The Potions Master searched under Hermione Granger’s pillow, and beneath
her bed, and then began going through her trunk, sorting through
mentionable and unmentionable items without change of expression, and
finally succeeded in drawing forth a set of papers describing places and
times where bullies would be found, all of the papers signed only with
an elaborate ‘S’.

A brief burst of fire later, the papers were gone, and the Potions
Master left to report the failure of his mission.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Defence Professor was sitting calmly with his hands still folded in
his lap. “If you consult Headmaster Dumbledore,” said the Defence
Professor, “you will find that he is well aware of this matter, and that
I agreed to teach his Defence class on the explicit condition that no
inquiry be made into my—”

In a lightning motion, the interrogator whipped out his wand and spat
“Polyfluis Reverso!” at the same time that the Defence Professor
sneezed, which somehow caused the mirror-silvered ray to disrupt in a
shower of white sparks.

“Pardon me,” the Defence Professor said politely.

The smile that the Auror gave had absolutely no mirth in it. “So where’s
the real Quirinus Quirrell, eh? Under an Imperius in the bottom of a
trunk somewhere, while you take a hair now and then for your illegal
Polyjuice?”

“You are making highly questionable assumptions,” the Defence Professor
said with an edged voice. “What makes you think I did not steal his body
outright using incredibly Dark magic?”

This was followed by a certain pause.

“I suggest,” the Auror said, “that you take this seriously,
Mr Whoever-You-Are.”

“I’m sorry,” said the Defence Professor, leaning back in his chair, “but
I see little reason to humble myself on this particular occasion. What
are you going to do, kill me?”

“I don’t appreciate your humour,” the Auror said softly.

“How unfortunate for you, Rufus Scrimgeour,” said the Defence Professor.
“You have my deepest sympathy.” He tilted his head, seeming to study the
interrogator; and even within the shadow of the ice-light, the eyes
glinted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Padma stared down at her plate.

“Hermione wouldn’t just do that!” yelled Mandy Stockbroker, who was
practically in tears, in fact she was in tears, her voice would have
been loud enough to silence the Great Hall if it hadn’t been for all the
other students also screaming at each other. “I—I bet Malfoy tried to—to
do things to her—”

“Our General would never do that!” Kevin Entwhistle yelled even louder
than Mandy.

“Of course he would!” shouted Anthony Goldstein. “Malfoy’s the son of a
Death Eater!”

Padma stared down at her plate.

Draco was the General of her army.

Hermione was the founder of SPHEW.

Draco had trusted her to be his second-in-command.

Hermione was her fellow Ravenclaw.

Both of them were her friends, maybe the two best friends she had.

Padma stared down at her plate. She was glad the Sorting Hat hadn’t
offered her Hufflepuff. If she’d been Sorted into Hufflepuff it would
probably have been much more painful, trying to decide where her divided
loyalties lay…

She blinked and realized that her vision had blurred again, and raised a
trembling hand to wipe once more at her eyes.

Morag MacDougal snorted so loudly it was audible even amid the
pandemonium of lunch, and said in a loud voice, “I bet Granger cheated
in her battle yesterday, I bet that’s why Malfoy challenged her—”

“All of you SHUT UP!” roared Harry Potter, as he hit the table with his
fists so hard that plates rattled all the way along it.

At any other time that would have earned him a Professorial reprimand;
this time it just got a few nearby students to look.

“I’d wanted to eat lunch,” Harry Potter said, “and then get back to
investigating, so I wasn’t going to talk. But you’re all being silly,
and when the truth comes out you’re going to regret what you said about
innocent people. Draco didn’t do anything, Hermione didn’t do anything,
they were both False-Memory-Charmed!” Harry Potter’s voice had been
rising on the last words. “How is that not BLOODY OBVIOUS?”

“You think we’ll believe that?” Kevin Entwhistle yelled right back at
him. “That’s what everyone says! ‘I didn’t do it, it was all just a
False Memory Charm!’ You think we’re stupid?”

And Morag nodded right along with him, with a condescending look.

The look that came over Harry Potter’s face then made Padma flinch.

“I see,” Harry Potter said; it wasn’t a shout, so Padma had to strain to
hear it. “Professor Quirrell isn’t here to explain to me how stupid
people are, but I bet this time I can get it on my own. People do
something dumb and get caught and are given Veritaserum. Not romantic
master criminals, because they wouldn’t get caught, they would have
learned Occlumency. Sad, pathetic, incompetent criminals get caught, and
confess under Veritaserum, and they’re desperate to stay out of Azkaban
so they say they were False-Memory-Charmed. Right? So your brain, by
sheer Pavlovian association, links the idea of False Memory Charms to
pathetic criminals with unbelievable excuses. You don’t have to consider
the specific details, your brain just pattern-matches the hypothesis
into a bucket of things you don’t believe, and you’re done. Just like my
father thought that magical hypotheses could never be believed, because
he’d heard so many stupid people talking about magic. Believing a
hypothesis that involves False Memory Charms is low-status.”

“What are you blithering about?” said Morag, looking down her nose at
the Boy-Who-Lived.

“You think we’d believe anything you say?” yelled a slightly
older-looking Ravenclaw witch who Padma didn’t recognize. “When you
turned Granger Dark?”

“And I’m not going to complain,” Harry Potter said in an eerily calm
voice, “about wizards not having any logic and believing the craziest
things. Because I said that to Professor Quirrell once, and he just gave
me this look and said that if I wasn’t blinded by my upbringing I could
think of a hundred more ridiculous things that lots of Muggles believe.
What you’re all doing is very human and very normal and doesn’t make you
unusually bad people, so I’m not going to complain.” The Boy-Who-Lived
rose up from his bench. “I’ll see you all later.”

And Harry Potter walked away from them, walked away from all of them.

“You’re not thinking he’s right, are you?” said Su Li from beside her,
in a tone which made it clear what she thought.

“I—” said Padma. Her words seemed to be caught in her throat, her
thoughts seemed to be caught in her head. “I—I mean—I—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you think hard enough you can do the impossible.

(It had always been an article of faith with Harry. There’d been a time
when he’d acknowledged the laws of physics as ultimate limitations, and
now he suspected there were no true limits at all.)

If you think fast enough you can sometimes do the impossible quickly…

…sometimes.

Only sometimes.

Not always.

Not reliably.

The Boy-Who-Lived stared around the trophy room, surrounded by awards
and cups and plates and shields and statues and medals kept behind
thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of crystal glass displays. For as
many centuries as Hogwarts had existed, this room had been accumulating
details. A week, a month, maybe even a year, wouldn’t have sufficed to
take the ‘examine’ option on every item in the room. With Professor
Flitwick gone, Harry had asked Professor Vector if there was any way to
detect damage to the wards around the crystal cases, verify the residue
that a real duel should have left behind. Harry had raced through the
Hogwarts library looking for spells to tell the difference between old
fingerprints and new fingerprints, or to detect lingering exhalations in
a room. And all those attempts at playing detective had failed.

There were no clues, none that he was smart enough to find.

Professor Snape had said that the portkey led to an empty house in
London, with no sign of anyone or anything else.

Professor Snape hadn’t found any notes in Hermione’s dorm.

Headmaster Dumbledore had said that Voldemort’s spirit was probably
hiding out in the Chamber of Secrets where the Hogwarts security system
couldn’t find him. Harry had sneaked into the Slytherin dungeons under
the Cloak of Invisibility and spent the rest of the afternoon looking
through all the obvious places, but he hadn’t found anything snaky that
answered back when spoken to. The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets, it
seemed, hadn’t been meant to be found in a day.

Harry had talked to all of Hermione’s friends that would still talk to
him, and none of them had remembered Hermione saying anything specific
about why she’d believed that Draco was plotting against her.

Professor Quirrell hadn’t come back from the Ministry as of dinner time.
The older students seemed to think that this year’s Defence Professor
would probably end up being blamed for the incident, and fired for
teaching Hogwarts students to be too violent. They’d talked about the
Defence Professor as though he were already gone.

Harry had used up all six hours from his Time-Turner, and there were
still no clues, and he had to go to sleep now if he wanted to be
functional at Hermione’s trial the next day.

The Boy-Who-Destroyed-A-Dementor was standing in the middle of the
Hogwarts trophy room, his wand dropped at his feet.

He was crying.

Sometimes you call your brain and it doesn’t answer.

The trial of Hermione Granger started on schedule the next day.

80. Taboo Trade-offs, Part II:The Horns Effect

THE Most Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot is cool and dark, with
concentric half-circles of stone rising up from the lowest centre, and
simple wooden benches set down upon those elevated half-circles. There
is no source of light, but the chamber is well-lit, without any apparent
cause or reason; it is simply a brute fact that the hall is well-lit.
The walls, like the floor, are stone, dark stone, some elegant and
mysterious conjugation of rock most fine to gaze upon, with a smooth
texture that seems to flow and shift beneath its surface. This is the
Most Ancient Hall, the oldest place of wizardry that has lasted into the
modern day; every other place of power was destroyed in one war or
another. This is the Hall of the Wizengamot, which is most ancient
because the wars ended with the building of this place.

This is the Hall of the Wizengamot; there are older places, but they are
hidden. Legend holds that the walls of dark stone were conjured,
created, willed into existence by Merlin, when he gathered the most
powerful wizards left in the world and awed them into accepting him as
their chief. And when (the legend continues) the Seers continued to
foretell that not enough had yet been done to prevent the end of the
world and its magic, then (the story goes) Merlin sacrificed his life,
and his wizardry, and his time, to lay in force the Interdict of Merlin.
It was not an act without cost, for a place like this one could not be
raised again by any power still known to wizardkind. Nor yet destroyed,
for those walls of dark stone would pass unharmed, and perhaps unwarmed,
through the heart of a nuclear explosion. It is a pity that nobody knows
how to make them any more.

In the highest of the rising half-circles of the Wizengamot, on the
topmost level of dark stone, there is a podium. At that podium stands an
old man, with care-lined face and a silver beard that stretches down
below his waist; this is Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore. His
right hand bears a wand of power, upon his shoulder perches a bird of
fire. His left hand holds a short rod, thin and featureless and forged
of the same dark stone as the walls, and this is the Line of Merlin
Unbroken, the device of the Chief Warlock. Karen Dutton bequeathed the
Line to Albus Dumbledore on the last day of her life, scant hours after
he returned half-dead from his defeat of Grindelwald with a phœnix
flaming brightly at his side. She in turn received the Line from the
perfectionist Nicodemus Capernaum, each wizard passing it to their
chosen successor, back and back in unbroken chain to the day Merlin laid
down his life. That (if you were wondering) is how the country of
magical Britain managed to elect Cornelius Fudge for its Minister, and
yet end up with Albus Dumbledore for its Chief Warlock. Not by law (for
written law can be rewritten) but by most ancient tradition, the
Wizengamot does not choose who shall preside over its follies. Since the
day of Merlin’s sacrifice, the most important duty of any Chief Warlock
has been to exercise the highest caution in their choice of people who
are both good and able to discern good successors. You would expect that
chain of light to miss a step, sometime down through the centuries; that
it would go astray at least once, and then never return. But it has not.
The Line of Merlin continues, unbroken.

(Or so say those of Dumbledore’s faction. Lord Malfoy would tell you
otherwise. And in Asia they tell other tales entirely, which may not
make Britain’s version wrong.)

Upon the bottommost platform of the Ancient Hall there is a high-backed
chair, legged and armed and without cushions, of dark metal rather than
dark stone, which Merlin did not place there.

The Ministry building that grew up around this place is wood-panelled
and gold-washed, bright and fire-lit, filled with bustling foolishness.
This place is different. It is the stone heart of magical Britain, and
it is neither gold-washed nor wood-panelled, neither fire-lit nor
bright.

Filing solemnly into this room are witches and wizards in plum-coloured
robes each embroidered with a silver W. They carry themselves with an
air of seriousness showing that they are well aware that they are
terribly, terribly important. They are meeting in the Most Ancient Hall,
after all. They are the Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot, and they
consider themselves the greatest folk of the world’s greatest magical
country. Lesser folk have fallen before them on bended knee in
supplication; they are powerful, they are wealthy, they are noble; are
they not great?

Albus Dumbledore knows everyone in this room by name. He has taught many
of them, though too few have learned. Some are his allies, some his
opponents, the rest he courts within the careful dance of their
neutrality. All of them, to him, are people.

The current Defence Professor of Hogwarts, if you asked him for his
opinion of the Lords and Ladies, would say that while many of them are
ambitious, few have any ambition. He would observe that the Wizengamot
is exactly where someone like that would end up—that it is exactly the
sort of opportunity you would grasp, if you had nothing better to do.
Such folk are rarely interesting, but they are often useful; pieces to
be manipulated, points to be scored, by the true players of the game.

Not among the rising half-circles, but off to one side among a raised
arc for the spectators, next to a witch in pointed hat whose face is
lined with apprehension, there sits a boy dressed in the most formal
black robes that he owns. His eyes are green ice and abstraction, and he
hardly glances at the Lords and Ladies as they bustle in. To him they
are just a collection of murmuring plum-coloured robes to decorate the
wooden benches, visual background for the scene of the Most Ancient
Hall. If there is an enemy here, or something to be manipulated, it is
merely “the Wizengamot”. The wealthy elites of magical Britain have
collective force, but not individual agency; their goals are too alien
and trivial for them to have personal roles in the tale. As of now, this
present time, the boy neither likes nor dislikes the plum-coloured
robes, because his brain does not assign them enough agency to be the
subjects of moral judgement. He is a PC, and they are wallpaper.

This view is about to change.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry gazed unseeing around the hall of the Wizengamot; it looked quite
old and historic and there was no doubt that Hermione could have
lectured him about the place for hours on end. The plum-coloured robes
had stopped arriving, and Harry’s pocket watch, advancing at the rate of
three minutes every half-hour, said that the trial was almost due to
start.

Professor McGonagall was sitting beside him, and her eyes never left him
for more than twenty consecutive seconds.

Harry had read the Daily Prophet that morning. The headline had been
“Mad Muggle-born Tries To End Ancient Line” and the rest of the paper
had been the same. When Harry was nine years old the IRA had blown up a
British barracks, and he’d watched on TV as all the politicians
contested to see who could be the most loudly outraged. And the thought
had occurred to Harry—even then, before he’d known much about
psychology—that it looked like everyone was competing to see who could
be most angry, and nobody would’ve been allowed to suggest that anyone
was being too angry, even if they’d just proposed the saturation nuclear
bombing of Ireland. He’d been struck, even then, by an essential
emptiness in the indignation of politicians—though he hadn’t had the
words to describe it, at that age—a sense that they were trying to score
cheap points by hitting at the same safe target as everyone else.

Harry had always possessed that sense of hollowness about political
indignation, but it was strange how very much more obvious it seemed,
when you were reading a dozen articles in the Daily Prophet attacking
Hermione Granger.

The leading article, written by some name that Harry didn’t recognize,
had called for the minimum age for Azkaban to be lowered, just so that
the twisted mudblood who had defaced the honour of Scotland with her
savage, unprovoked attack upon the last heir of a Most Ancient House
within the sacred refuge of Hogwarts could be sent to the Dementors that
were the only punishment commensurate with the severity of her
unspeakable crime. Only this would be enough to discourage any other
foreign, subhuman brutes who similarly believed in their twisted
insanity that they could evade the majesty of the Wizengamot’s
inevitable and merciless scourging of all that threatened the honourable
nobility of etcetera etcetera etcetera.

The next article had said the same thing in less eloquent words.

Earlier, Albus Dumbledore had told him,

“I will not try to keep you from this trial.” The old wizard’s voice
quiet and unyielding. “I can well foresee how that would go. But I would
have you treat me with equal courtesy in return. The politics of the
Wizengamot are delicate, and of them you know nothing. Dare any folly
and it shall be to Hermione Granger’s cost; and you will remember that
folly for the rest of your days, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.”

“I understand,” Harry said. “I know. Just—if you’re planning to pull a
rabbit out of your hat and save the day at the last minute when
everything seems lost, please tell me now instead of letting me sit and
worry—”

“I would not do that to you,” the old wizard said, a terrible weariness
seeming to suffuse him as he turned to go. “Still less to Hermione. But
I have no rabbits in my hat, Harry. We can only see what Lucius Malfoy
wants.”

There was a small sharp rap, a single brief sound that somehow silenced
the entire room and caused Harry’s head to jerk around and upward. High
above, Dumbledore had just tapped his podium with the dark rod he held
in his left hand.

“The ninetieth session of the two-hundred-and-eighth Wizengamot is
convened at the request of Lord Lucius Malfoy,” the old wizard said
tonelessly.

At once, far to the side of the podium but also in the highest circle,
rose a tall man with a mane of long white spilling down from his head
over the shoulders of his plum-coloured robes. “I present a witness for
questioning under Veritaserum,” Lucius Malfoy said, his cool tone clear
throughout the room, smoothly controlled with only a slight undertone of
righteous fury. “Let Hermione, the first Granger, be brought forth.”

“I ask you all to remember that she is a first-year of Hogwarts,”
Dumbledore said. “I will brook no abuse of this witness—”

Someone in the benches quite audibly said “Pfah!” and there was a spread
of disgusted snorts, even one or two jeers.

Harry stared at the plum-coloured robes, his eyes narrowing.

And with the growing anger came something else, a rising sense of
disquiet, of something horribly skewed, like reality itself was being
disrupted. Harry knew that, somehow, but he couldn’t figure out what was
awry, or why his mind thought it was getting worse…

“Order!” Dumbledore bellowed. He rapped the stone rod twice against the
podium, producing two more small clicks that overrode all noise. “I will
have order here!”

The door through which the witness was brought forth was set directly
beneath Harry’s own seat, so it wasn’t until the entire group had
emerged fully into the stone hall that Harry saw—

—an Auror trio—

—Hermione’s back was to Harry as she was brought out, he couldn’t see
her face—

—followed by a shining silver sparrow and a running moonlit squirrel—

—and the source of the horrible wrongness, half-hidden beneath a
tattered cloak.

Harry shot to his feet before he could even think, it was only Professor
McGonagall’s sudden frantic grab on his wrist that stopped his hand
going for his wand; and the Transfiguration Professor whispered
desperately, “Harry it’s all right there’s a Patronus—”

It took a few seconds for Harry to remember himself. For the part of
himself that understood that Hermione hadn’t been directly exposed to a
Dementor, to argue his other parts into something like sanity—

But animal Patronuses aren’t perfect, said another voice inside his
mind. Or Dumbledore wouldn’t see the form of a naked man painful to look
upon. You felt it approaching, animal Patronus or no…

Slowly, Harry Potter sat back down again as Professor McGonagall pulled
down with her grip on his wrist.

But by then he’d already declared war on the country of magical Britain,
and the idea of other people calling him a Dark Lord no longer seemed
important one way or another.

Hermione’s face became visible to him, as she sat down in the chair. She
wasn’t upright and defiant like she’d been in front of Snape, she wasn’t
crying like she’d been when the Aurors arrested her. She just sat there
with a look of vacant horror as dark metal chains snaked out from the
chair and bound her arms and legs.

Harry couldn’t take it. Without even thinking he was trying to flee
inside himself, flee into his dark side, pull the cold rage over himself
like a shield. It took too long, he hadn’t tried to go fully into his
dark side since Azkaban. And then when his blood was something like
cold, he looked up again, and saw Hermione in the chair again, and
discovered that his dark side knew nothing about how to deal with this
type of pain, it pierced through the coldness like a knife and didn’t
hurt less in the slightest.

“Why, if it isn’t Harry Potter!” came a high, light female voice, sickly
sweet and indulgent.

Slowly, Harry turned his head away from the chair and saw a smiling
woman wearing so much make-up that her skin looked almost pink, sitting
next to a man that Harry recognized from photographs as Minister
Cornelius Fudge.

“Did you have something to say, Mr Potter?” inquired the woman, as
cheerfully as if this wasn’t a trial.

Other people were also looking at him now.

Harry couldn’t speak, all the words in his mind would have been stupid
to speak aloud. He couldn’t find anything to say that Neville could also
have said. Dumbledore had warned Harry that if anyone else wanted the
Boy-Who-Lived to speak, he must pretend to be his age—

“The Headmaster said I shouldn’t talk,” the boy said, not quite able to
keep the edge out of his voice.

“Oh, but you have our permission to talk!” the woman said brightly. “I’m
sure the Wizengamot is always happy to hear from the Boy-Who-Lived!”
Beside her, Minister Cornelius Fudge was nodding.

The woman’s face was puffy and overweight, visibly pale beneath the
make-up. Almost inevitably, a certain word came to mind, and that word
was toad. Which, said Harry’s logical part, shouldn’t correlate to
morality in any way. Only in Disney films were ugly people more likely
to be evil and vice versa; and those films were probably scripted by
writers who’d never been ugly. He’d give her a chance, everyone in this
room deserved one chance…

“Because I got rid of the Dark Lord?” the boy said, and pointed at the
Dementor where it was hovering behind Hermione’s chair. “There’s
something in this room that’s Darker.”

The woman’s face narrowed, growing a little stern. “I realize a young
boy like yourself may be scared by them, Mr Potter, but the Dementors
are quite obedient to the Ministry of Magic. And they would, of course,
be necessary to guard—”

“A twelve-year-old girl?” the boy yelled. “Those are the Darkest
creatures in the whole world, I could feel it coming here even through
the Patronus—the wrongness coming nearer—it’s horribly evil and it—it’d
eat everyone in this room, if it could! It shouldn’t be let near any
child, ever! Not me, not her, not anyone! You ought to vote to send it
away!”

“We’ll certainly have no such vote—” the toad-woman snapped.

“That’s enough, Madam Umbridge, Mr Potter,” came Dumbledore’s stern
voice from high above. And then after a short pause, the old wizard went
on, “Although, of course, the boy is correct on every count.”

Some of the members of the Wizengamot were looking abashed at the
Boy-Who-Lived’s admonition, and a few others were nodding violently to
the old wizard’s words. But they were too few. Harry could see it. They
were too few.

The Veritaserum was brought in then, and Hermione looked for a brief
moment like she was about to sob, she was looking at Harry—no, at
Professor McGonagall—and Professor McGonagall was mouthing words that
Harry couldn’t make out from his angle. Then Hermione swallowed three
drops of Veritaserum and her face grew slack.

“Gawain Robards,” said the smooth voice of Lucius Malfoy. “Your probity
is known to all of us. If you would do the honours?”

One of the three Aurors stepped forward.

After the first few questions Harry looked away and stared off to one
side with his fingers in his ears, as Hermione’s brain played back the
contents of the False Memory Charm. He couldn’t handle the drug-dulled
anguish in Hermione’s voice as she recounted the false memories, and his
dark side couldn’t handle it either, and he’d already heard the contents
summarized.

Harry’s mind flashed back to another day of horror, and even though
Harry had been on the verge of writing off Lord Voldemort’s continued
existence as the senility of an old wizard, it suddenly seemed horribly
and uniquely plausible that the entity who’d Memory-Charmed Hermione was
the very same mind that had—made use of—Bellatrix Black. The two events
had a certain signature in common. To choose that this should happen,
plan for this to happen—it would take more than evil, it would take
emptiness.

Harry looked up for a moment, then, and saw that the plum-coloured robes
were watching, just watching.

Some time later, after all the stars in the night sky had gone cold and
dark and the last light in the Universe had sputtered down to embers and
gone black, the questioning of Hermione ended.

“If it pleases my Lords,” said the voice of Lord Malfoy, “I should like
to have the testimony of my son Draco, witnessed under two drops of
Veritaserum, read aloud at this time.”

Until she went after me in that battle, I wasn’t plotting anything
against Granger. But after that day I really was feeling insulted, I’d
helped her all those times—

The sound that came from Hermione’s throat was like she’d just been
crushed under a falling stone, so huge that she couldn’t cry or breathe,
just a small sad gasp.

“Pardon me,” said one witch from what seemed to be the Malfoy-aligned
side of the room. “But Lord Malfoy, why would your son help this
mudblood girl?”

“My son,” Lucius Malfoy said in a heavy voice, “seems to have been
listening to certain misguided ideas. He is young—and he has learned,
now, we have all seen as a country, what such folly brings in
repayment.”

A few steps down along the visitor’s benches, a man wearing a newsman’s
cap and a badge identifying him as belonging to the Daily Prophet was
avidly scribbling with a long quill.

The few people who’d nodded along to Dumbledore earlier had rather sick
looks on their faces. One witch in plum-coloured robes quite
deliberately stood up from what had seemed like Dumbledore’s side of the
room, and made her way over toward the Malfoy side.

The Auror went on reading, his voice monotone.

“I’d been so tired from casting all those locking wards, I was weak when
I cast the last one. I thought I was stronger than Granger but I wasn’t
certain, so I tested it empirically by challenging her to a duel, that’s
why I d-d-did it and also because if I’d won I was planning to beat her
again the next day where everyone could see. Stupid Veritaserum. But she
didn’t know about that when she tried to kill me! And I really was
insulted by what she’d done, I really had helped her before and I hadn’t
been planning anything against her then, only she went after me in front
of everyone!”

When all the witness testimony was done, the deliberations of the
Wizengamot began.

If you could call them that.

It seemed that many members of the Wizengamot were of the strong opinion
that murder was bad.

The plum-coloured robes on Dumbledore’s side of the room were silent,
the supposed forces of good saving their political capital for more
winnable battles. And Harry could hear, as though Professor Quirrell
were standing next to him, a dry voice in his mind; explaining to him
that it would hardly have been to the politicians’ own advantage to
speak, just then.

But there was one wizard in the room whose status was high enough that
he had, it seemed, transcended his caution against losing face; one
wizard alone whose status was high enough that he could speak a word of
sanity and escape unscathed. He alone spoke to defend Hermione, the man
with a phœnix flaming bright upon his shoulder.

Only Albus Dumbledore spoke.

The Chief Warlock didn’t raise the possibility that Hermione Granger was
entirely innocent. That, the Headmaster had explained to Harry, would
not be believed, would only make it worse.

But Albus Dumbledore said, in one gentle reminder after another, that
the perpetrator was a first-year girl in Hogwarts; that many had done
foolish things during their youth; that a first-year in Hogwarts was
simply too young to comprehend the consequences of her acts. He himself
(the Chief Warlock said quietly) had attempted certain foolish things
during his childhood, when he was well older than she.

Albus Dumbledore said that Hermione Granger had been beloved of all the
Hogwarts faculty, and helped four Hufflepuff girls with their Charms
homework, and had scored one hundred and three points for Ravenclaw over
the course of the school year.

Albus Dumbledore said that nobody who knew Hermione Granger would be
anything but shocked by these events. That they had, all of them, heard
the horror in her voice as she recounted her testimony. And if some
unusual madness had temporarily possessed her, then—his voice rising in
stern command—she deserved nothing from them except sympathy and a
healer’s attentions.

And at the last, Albus Dumbledore reminded the Wizengamot, over cries of
protest, that the charge was attempted murder and not murder. Albus
Dumbledore said, over a rising storm of objections, that no lasting harm
had come to anyone. And Albus Dumbledore begged them not to do worse
themselves than anything that had yet been done—

“Enough!” bellowed Lucius Malfoy, and a show of hands ended the
deliberations. The white-maned man stood tall and terrible, his silver
cane held high in one hand like a gavel about to fall. “For what this
mad woman has tried to do to my son—for the blood debt that she owes for
trying to end the line of a Noble and Most Ancient House—I say that she
will—”

“Azkaban!” roared a man with a scarred face, seated at Lord Malfoy’s
right hand. “Send the mad mudblood to Azkaban!”

“Azkaban!” cried another plum-coloured robe, and then another, and
another—

A click from the rod in Dumbledore’s hand silenced the room. “You are
out of order,” the old wizard said sternly. “And your proposal is
barbaric, beneath the dignity of this assembly. There are things we do
not do. Lord Malfoy?”

Lucius Malfoy had listened to this with an impassive face. “Well,” Lord
Malfoy said after a few moments. A cold gleam lit his eyes. “I had not
planned to ask it. But if that is the will of the Wizengamot—then let
her pay as any in her place would pay. Let it be Azkaban.”

A great cheer of rage went up—

“Are you all lost?” cried Albus Dumbledore. “She is too young! Her mind
would not withstand it! Not in three centuries has such a thing been
done in Britain!”

“What will the other countries think of us?” said the sharp voice of a
woman that Harry recognized as Neville’s grandmother.

“Will you guard Azkaban after she goes there, Lord Malfoy?” said a stern
old witch that Harry didn’t know. “For my Aurors may decline to guard
it, I fear, if small children are kept within.”

“The deliberations are ended,” Lucius Malfoy said coldly. “But if you
are incapable of finding Aurors who can obey the vote of the Wizengamot,
Madam Bones, you may relinquish the position; we can easily find another
to serve in your place. The will of this Hall is clear. For the
monstrosity of her crimes, the girl is to be tried as an adult and
punished accordingly; ten years in Azkaban, the justice for attempted
murder.”

When the old wizard spoke again, his voice was lower. “Is there no
alternative to this, Lucius? We may retire to my chambers to discuss it,
if need be.”

The tall man of the long white hair turned, then, to regard where the
old wizard stood at the podium; and the two stared at each other for a
long moment.

When Lucius Malfoy spoke again his voice seemed to tremble ever so
slightly, as though the stern control on it was failing. “Blood calls
for repayment, the blood of my family. Not for any price will I sell the
blood debt owed my son. You would not understand that, who never had
love or child of your own. Still, there is more than one debt owed to
House Malfoy, and I think that my son, if he stood among us, would
rather be repaid for his mother’s blood than for his own. Confess your
own crime to the Wizengamot, as you confessed it to me, and I shall—”

“Don’t even think about it, Albus,” said the stern old witch who had
spoken before.

The old wizard stood at the podium.

The old wizard stood at the podium, his face twisting, untwisting—

“Stop it,” said the old witch. “You know the answer you must give,
Albus. It will not change for agonizing over it.”

The old wizard spoke.

“No,” said Albus Dumbledore.

“And you, Malfoy,” continued the stern old witch, “I suppose all you
really wanted this whole time was to ruin—”

“Hardly,” said Lucius Malfoy, his lips now twisting into a bitter smile.
“No, I have no purpose here but my son’s vengeance. I only wished to
show the Wizengamot the truth behind this old man’s pretended heroism
and his praise of that girl—that he would hardly think of sacrificing
himself to save her.”

“Cruelty worthy of a Death Eater indeed,” said Augusta Longbottom. “Not
that I’m implying anything, of course.”

“Cruelty?” said Lucius Malfoy, the bitter smile still on his face. “I
think not. I knew what his answer would be. I have ever warned you that
he only plays his pretended part. If you believe in his hesitation, the
more fool you. Remember that his answer was the same.” The man raised
his voice. “Let us vote, my friends. I think a show of hands will
suffice for it. I do not imagine there will be many who choose to align
themselves with murderers.” The voice went cold, on the last note, the
promise in it very clear.

“Look at the girl,” said Albus Dumbledore. “See her, see the horror you
are committing! She is—” The old wizard’s voice broke. “She is afraid—”

The Veritaserum must have been wearing off, because Hermione Granger’s
face was twisting beneath the slackness, her limbs trembling visibly
beneath the chains, as though she were trying to run, run from that
chair, but was pressed down by weights larger than the enchanted metal
links that bound her. Then there was a convulsive effort and Hermione’s
neck moved, her head twisted, enough to bring her eyes into line—

She looked at Harry Potter and though she didn’t speak, it was
absolutely clear what she was saying.

Harry

help me

please—

And in the Most Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot an icy voice rang out,
speech the colour of liquid nitrogen, pitched too high for that it came
from too young a throat, and that voice said, “Lucius Malfoy.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the ancient and hallowed halls of the Wizengamot, people looked
around and it took their eyes too long to find what they sought. It
might have been high in pitch, it might have been under-loud for the
words being spoken; and yet even so, you wouldn’t have expected to hear
that voice from a child.

It wasn’t until Lord Malfoy spoke in return that people even realized
where they should be looking.

“Harry Potter,” said Lucius Malfoy. He did not incline his head.

Heads spun, eyes moved, and people focused on the messy-haired young boy
standing near the weeping older witch. The boy stood merely chest-high
with his shoes on, dressed in short robes of formal black. Though unless
your eyes were keen indeed, you couldn’t have seen, from all the way
across the Hall, that famous and deadly scar beneath his messy hair.

“This folly does not become you, Lucius,” said the boy. “Twelve-year-old
girls do not go around committing murders. You are a Slytherin and an
intelligent one. You know this is a plot. Hermione Granger was placed on
this game board by force, by whatever hand lies behind that plot. You
were surely intended to act just as you are acting now—except that Draco
Malfoy was meant to be dead, and you were meant to be beyond all reason.
But he is alive and you are sane. Why are you cooperating with your
intended role, in a plot meant to take the life of your son?”

A storm seemed to be raging inside Lucius, the face beneath the flowing
white hair threatening to crack open and spill something unguessable.
The Lord of Malfoy seemed to almost speak once and then twice again,
swallowing three unheard sentences before his lips parted for true. “A
plot, you say?” Lord Malfoy said at last. His face was twitching, hardly
controlled. “And whose plot would that be, then?”

“If I knew,” said the boy, “I would have said so a good deal earlier.
But anyone who had ever been Hermione Granger’s classmate could tell you
that she is a most unlikely murderess. She does, in fact, help
Hufflepuffs with their homework. This was not a natural event, Lord
Malfoy.”

“Plot—or no plot—” Lucius’s voice was trembling. “This mudblood filth
has touched my son and for that I will end her. You should know that
full well, Harry Potter.”

“It is questionable,” the boy said, “to put it mildly, whether Hermione
Granger actually cast that Blood-Cooling Charm. I do not know the exact
circumstances or what spells were involved, but simple trickery would
not have sufficed to make her do it. She did not act of her own will,
and perhaps did not act at all. Your vengeance is being misdirected,
Lord Malfoy, and deliberately so. It is not a twelve-year-old girl who
deserves your ire.”

“And what do you care for her fate?” Lucius Malfoy’s voice was rising.
“What is your stake in this?”

“She is my friend,” the boy said, “as Draco is my friend. It is possible
that this blow was aimed at me, and not at House Malfoy at all.”

Again the muscles jumped in Lucius’s face. “And now you are lying to
me—as you lied to my son!”

“Believe it or not,” the boy said quietly, “I never willed anything but
that Draco should know the truth—”

“Enough!” cried the Lord Malfoy. “Enough of your lies! Enough of your
games! You do not understand—you would never understand—what it means
that he is my son! I will not be denied this vengeance! No more! Never
again! For the blood this girl owes House Malfoy, she shall go to
Azkaban. And if I ever find another hand at work—even if it is your
own—that hand shall be cut off as well!” Lucius Malfoy raised his deadly
silver cane as though in command, his teeth clenched and his lips drawn
back in a snarl, like a wolf facing a dragon. “And if you have nothing
better to say than that—be silent, Harry Potter!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry’s blood was hammering even beneath the ice of his dark side, the
fear for Hermione, the part of him that wanted to lash out at Lucius and
destroy him where he stood for his insolence and his stupidity— but
Harry didn’t have the power, he didn’t even have a single vote in the
Wizengamot—

Draco had said that Lucius was scared of him, for some unknown reason.
And Harry could see it in the rictus that Lord Malfoy’s face had become,
drawn and tight, that it was taking all his courage for him to tell
Harry to shut up.

So Harry said, his voice cool and deadly, hoping to hell that it meant
something, “You will earn my enmity if you do this thing, Lucius…”

Someone in the lower rows of what was evidently the blood-purist side of
the Wizengamot, who was looking down at the young boy rather than up at
Lord Malfoy, laughed in outright incredulity. Other plum-coloured robes
began to laugh as well.

Lord Malfoy gazed at him with hard dignity, as that laughter spread. “If
you want the enmity of the House of Malfoy, you shall have it, child.”

“Now really,” said the woman in too much pink make-up, “I think this has
gone on quite long enough, wouldn’t you say, Lord Malfoy? The boy will
miss his classes.”

“Indeed he will,” said Lucius Malfoy, and then raised his voice again.
“I call the vote! By show of hands, let the Wizengamot acknowledge the
blood debt owed to the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, for the
attempted murder of its last scion and ending of its line, by Hermione,
the first Granger!”

Hands shot up one after another, and the secretary who sat in the bottom
circle began to make marks on parchment to tally them, but it was
obvious which way the majority had gone.

And Harry screamed inside his mind, a frantic call for help to any part
of himself that would offer a way out, a strategy, an idea. But there
was nothing, there was nothing, he’d played his last cards and lost. And
then with a last convulsive desperation Harry plunged himself into his
dark side, pushed himself into his dark side, seizing at its deadly
clarity, offering his dark side anything if it would only solve this
problem for him; and at last the lethal calm came over him, the true ice
finally answering his call. Beyond all panic and despair his mind began
to search through every fact in its possession, recall everything it
knew about Lucius Malfoy, about the Wizengamot, about the laws of
magical Britain; his eyes looked at the rows of chairs, at every person
and every thing within range of his vision, searching for any
opportunity it could grasp—

81. Taboo Trade-offs, Part III

IN rising half-circles of dark stone, a great sea of upraised hands.

The Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot, in plum-coloured robes marked
with a silver ‘W’, stared down in stern rebuke at a young girl trembling
in chains. If they had, in any particular ethical system, damned
themselves, they clearly thought quite highly of themselves for having
done so.

Harry’s breath was trembling in his chest. His dark side had come up
with a plan—and then rotated itself back out again because speaking too
icily would not be to Hermione’s advantage; a fact which the
only-half-cold Harry had somehow not realized…

“The vote carries, in favour,” intoned the secretary, when all the
tallying was done, and the upraised hands fell back down. “The
Wizengamot recognizes the blood debt owed by Hermione Granger to House
Malfoy for the attempted murder of its scion and ending of its line.”

Lucius Malfoy was smiling in grim satisfaction. “And now,” said the
white-maned wizard, “I say that her debt shall be paid—”

Harry clenched his fists beneath the bench and shouted, “By the debt
owed from House Malfoy to House Potter!”

“Silence!” snapped the woman in too much pink make-up sitting next to
Minister Fudge. “You’ve disrupted these proceedings quite enough
already! Aurors, escort him out!”

“Wait,” said Augusta Longbottom from the top tier of seats. “What debt
is this?”

Lucius’s hands whitened on his cane. “House Malfoy owes no debt to you!”

It wasn’t the world’s most solid hope, it was based on one newspaper
article from a woman who’d been False-Memory-Charmed, but Rita Skeeter
had seemed to find it plausible, that Mr Weasley had allegedly owed
James Potter a debt because…

“I’m surprised you’ve forgotten,” Harry said evenly. “Surely it was a
cruel and painful period of your life, labouring under the Imperius
curse of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, until you were freed of it by the
efforts of House Potter. By my mother, Lily Potter, who died for it, and
by my father, James Potter, who died for it, and by me, of course.”

There was a brief silence within the Most Ancient Hall.

“Why, what an excellent point, Mr Potter,” said the old witch who’d been
identified as Madam Bones. “I, too, am quite surprised that Lord Malfoy
would forget such a significant event. It must have been such a happy
day for him.”

“Yes,” said Augusta Longbottom. “He must have been so grateful.”

Madam Bones nodded. “House Malfoy could not possibly deny that
debt—unless, perhaps, Lord Malfoy is to tell us that he has
misremembered something? I should take quite a professional interest in
that. We are always trying to improve our picture of those dark days.”

Lucius Malfoy’s hands gripped the silver snake-handle of his cane like
he was about to strike with it, unleash whatever power it kept—

Then the Lord Malfoy seemed to relax, and a chill smile came over his
face. “Of course,” he said easily. “I do confess I had not understood,
but the child is quite correct. But I do not quite think the two debts
cancel—House Potter was only trying to save itself, after all—”

“Not so,” Dumbledore said from above.

“—and therefore,” intoned Lucius Malfoy, “I demand monetary compensation
as well, for the redemption of the blood debt owed my son. That, too, is
the law.”

Harry felt a strange inward flinch. That had also been in the newspaper
article, Mr Weasley had demanded an additional ten thousand Galleons—

“How much?” said the Boy-Who-Lived.

Lucius was still wearing the cold smile. “One hundred thousand Galleons.
If you have not that much in your vault, I suppose I must accept a
promissory note for the remainder.”

A roar of protest went up from Dumbledore’s side of the room, even some
of the plum-coloured robes in the middle looked shocked.

“Shall we put it to vote of the Wizengamot?” said Lucius Malfoy. “I
think few of us would like to see the little murderess go free. By a
show of hands, that additional compensation of one hundred thousand
Galleons would be required to cancel the debt!”

The clerk began tallying, but that vote was also clear.

Harry stood there, breathing deeply.

You’d better not even have to think about this, Harry’s inner Gryffindor
said threateningly.

It’s a major purchase, observed Ravenclaw. We ought to spend a lot of
time thinking about it.

It shouldn’t have been hard. It shouldn’t have. Two million pounds was
only money, and money was only worth what it could buy…

It was strange how much psychological attachment you could have to ‘only
money’, or how painful it could be to imagine losing a bank vault full
of gold that you hadn’t even imagined existed just one year earlier.

Kimball Kinnison wouldn’t hesitate, said Gryffindor. Seriously. Like,
snap decision. What sort of hero are you? I already hate you just for
having to think about it for longer than 50 milliseconds.

This is real life, said Ravenclaw. Losing all your money is a lot more
painful for real people in real life than in heroic books.

What? demanded Gryffindor. Whose side are you on?

I wasn’t advocating for a particular answer, said Ravenclaw, I was just
saying it because it was true.

Could a hundred thousand Galleons be used to save more than one life if
spent some other way? said Slytherin. We have research to do, battles to
fight, the difference between being 40,000 Galleons rich and being
60,000 Galleons in debt is not trivial—

So we’ll just use one of our ways to make money fast and earn it all
back, said Hufflepuff.

It’s not certain those will work, said Slytherin, and a lot of them
require starting cash—

Personally, said Gryffindor, I vote that we save Hermione and then gang
up and kill our inner Slytherin.

The clerk’s voice said that the tally had been recorded and the vote had
passed…

Harry’s lips opened.

“I accept your offer,” said Harry’s lips, without any hesitation,
without any decision having been made; just as if the internal debate
had been pretence and illusion, the true controller of the voice having
been no part of it.

Lucius Malfoy’s mask of calm shattered, his eyes widened, he stared at
Harry in sheer blank astonishment. His mouth had opened slightly, though
he wasn’t speaking, and if he was making any peculiar noises it couldn’t
be heard over the roar of simultaneous gasps from the Wizengamot—

A tap of stone silenced the crowd.

“No,” said the voice of Dumbledore.

Harry’s head jerked around to stare at the ancient wizard.

Dumbledore’s lined face was pale, the silver beard was visibly
trembling, he looked like he was in the final throes of a terminal
illness. “I’m—sorry, Harry—but this choice is not yours—for I am still
the guardian of your vault.”

“What?” said Harry, too shocked to compose his reply.

“I cannot let you go into debt to Lucius Malfoy, Harry! I cannot! You do
not know—you do not realize—”

DIE.

Harry didn’t even know which part of himself had spoken, it might have
been a unanimous vote, the pure rage and fury pouring through him. For
an instant he thought that the sheer force of the anger might take
magical wing and fly out to strike the Headmaster, send him tumbling
back dead from the podium—

But when that mental voice had spoken, the old wizard was still standing
there, gazing at Harry, long dark wand in his right hand, short black
rod in his left.

And Harry’s eyes also went to the red-golden bird with its claws resting
on the shoulder of Dumbledore’s black robes, silent when no phœnix
should have been silent. “Fawkes,” Harry said, his voice sounding
strange in his own ears, “can you scream at him for me?”

The fiery bird on the old wizard’s shoulder didn’t scream. Maybe the
Wizengamot had demanded that a spell of silence be put on the creature,
otherwise it probably would have been screaming the whole time. But
Fawkes hit his master, one golden wing buffeting the old wizard’s head.

“I cannot, Harry!” the old wizard said, the agony clear in his voice. “I
am doing as I must do!”

And Harry knew, then, as he looked at the red-golden bird, what he had
to do as well. It should have been obvious from the beginning, that
solution.

“Then I too will do what I must,” Harry said up to Dumbledore, as though
the two of them stood alone in the room. “You do realize that, don’t
you?”

The old wizard shook his trembling head. “You will change your mind when
you are older—”

“I’m not talking about that,” Harry said, his voice still strange in his
own ears. “I mean that I will not allow Hermione Granger to be eaten by
Dementors under any circumstances. Period. Regardless of what any law
says, and no matter what I have to do to stop it. Do I still need to
spell it out?”

A strange male voice spoke from somewhere far away, “Be sure that the
girl is taken directly to Azkaban, and put under extra guard.”

Harry waited, staring at the old wizard, and then spoke again. “I will
go to Azkaban,” Harry said to the old wizard, as though they stood alone
in the world, “before Hermione can be taken there, and start snapping my
fingers. It may cost me my life, but by the time she gets there, there
won’t be an Azkaban any more.”

Some members of the Wizengamot gasped in surprise.

Then a greater number started laughing.

“How would you even get there, little boy?” someone said, from among
those who were laughing.

“I have my ways of getting to places,” said the boy’s distant voice.
Harry kept his eyes on Dumbledore, on the old wizard staring at him in
shock. Harry didn’t look directly at Fawkes, didn’t give his plan away;
but in his mind he prepared to summon the phœnix to transport him,
prepared to fill his mind with light and fury, to call for the fire-bird
with all his might, he might have to do it upon the instant if
Dumbledore pointed his wand—

“Would you truly?” the old wizard said to Harry, also as if the two of
them stood alone in the room.

The room went silent again as everyone stared in shock at the Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot, who seemed to be taking the mad threat
completely seriously.

The old wizard’s eyes were locked only on Harry. “Would you risk
everything—everything—only for her?”

“Yes,” Harry said back in reply.

That’s the wrong answer, you know, said Slytherin. Seriously.

But it’s the true answer.

“You will not see reason?” said the old wizard.

“Apparently not,” Harry said back.

The gazes stayed locked.

“This is terrible folly,” said the old wizard.

“I am aware of this,” answered the hero. “Now get out of my way.”

Strange light glinted in the ancient blue eyes. “As you will, Harry
Potter, but know that this is not over.”

The rest of the world faded back into existence.

“I withdraw my objection,” said the old wizard, “Harry Potter may do as
he wishes,” and the Wizengamot exploded in a roar of shock, only to be
silenced by a final tap of the stone rod.

Harry turned his head back to look at Lord Malfoy, who looked like he’d
seen a cat turn into a person and start eating other cats. To call the
look confused did not begin to describe it.

“You would truly…” Lucius Malfoy said slowly. “You would truly pay a
hundred thousand Galleons, to save one mudblood girl.”

“I think there’s about forty thousand in my Gringotts vault,” Harry
said. It was strange how that was still causing more internal pain than
the thought of taking an over-fifty-percent risk to his life to destroy
Azkaban. “As for the other sixty thousand—what are the rules, exactly?”

“It comes due when you graduate Hogwarts,” the old wizard said from high
above. “But Lord Malfoy has certain rights over you before then, I
fear.”

Lucius Malfoy stood motionless, frowning down at Harry. “Who is she to
you, then? What is she to you, that you would pay so much to keep her
from harm?”

“My friend,” the boy said quietly.

Lucius Malfoy’s eyes narrowed. “By the report I received, you cannot
cast the Patronus Charm, and Dumbledore knows this. The power of a
single Dementor nearly killed you. You would not dare venture near
Azkaban in your own person—”

“That was in January,” said Harry. “This is April.”

Lucius Malfoy’s eyes remained cool and calculating. “You pretend you can
destroy Azkaban, and Dumbledore pretends to believe it.”

Harry did not reply.

The white-haired man turned slightly, toward the centre of the
half-circle, as though to address the greater Wizengamot. “I withdraw my
offer!” shouted the Lord of Malfoy. “I will not accept the debt to House
Potter in payment, not even for a hundred thousand Galleons! The girl’s
blood debt to House Malfoy stands!”

Again the roar of many voices. “Dishonourable!” someone cried. “You
acknowledge the debt to House Potter, and yet you would—” and then that
voice cut off.

“I acknowledge the debt, but the law does not strictly oblige me to
accept it in cancellation,” said Lord Malfoy with a grim smile. “The
girl is no part of House Potter; the debt I owe House Potter is no debt
to her. As for the dishonour—” Lucius Malfoy paused. “As for the grave
shame I feel at my ingratitude toward the Potters, who have done so much
for me—” Lucius Malfoy bowed his head. “May my ancestors forgive me.”

“Well, boy?” called the scarred man sitting at Lord Malfoy’s right hand.
“Go and destroy Azkaban, then!”

“I’d like to see that,” said another voice. “Will you be selling
tickets?”

It went without saying that Harry didn’t pick this particular moment to
give up.

The girl is no part of House Potter—

He had, in fact, seen the obvious way out of the dilemma almost
instantly.

It might have taken him longer if he hadn’t recently overheard a number
of conversations between older Ravenclaw girls, and read a certain
number of Quibbler stories.

He was, nonetheless, having trouble accepting it.

This is ridiculous, said a part of Harry which had just dubbed itself
the Internal Consistency Checker. Our actions here are completely
incoherent. First you feel less emotional reluctance to risk your bloody
life and probably die for Hermione, than to part with a stupid heap of
gold. And now you’re baulking just at getting married?

SYSTEM ERROR.

You know what? said Internal Consistency Checker. You’re stupid.

I didn’t say no, thought Harry. I was just saying SYSTEM ERROR.

I vote for destroying Azkaban, said Gryffindor. It needs to be done
anyway.

Really, really stupid, said Internal Consistency Checker. Oh, screw
this, I’m assuming control of our body.

The boy took a deep breath, and opened his mouth—

By this point Harry Potter had entirely forgotten the existence of
Professor McGonagall, who had been sitting there this whole time
undergoing a number of interesting changes of facial expression which
Harry had not been looking at because he was distracted. It would have
been overly harsh to say that Harry had forgotten her because he did not
consider her a PC. It could be more kindly said that Professor
McGonagall was not visibly a solution to any of his current problems,
and therefore she was not part of the universe.

So Harry, who at this point had a fair amount of adrenaline in his
bloodstream, started and jumped quite visibly when Professor McGonagall,
her eyes now blazing with impossible hope and the tears on her cheek
half-dried, leapt to her feet and cried, “With me, Mr Potter!” and,
without waiting for a reply, tore down the stairs that led to the bottom
platform where waited a chair of dark metal.

It took a moment, but Harry ran after; though it took him longer to
reach the bottom, after Professor McGonagall vaulted half the stairs
with a strange catlike motion and landed with the astonished-looking
Auror trio already pointing their wands at her.

“Miss Granger!” cried Professor McGonagall. “Can you speak yet?”

Much as with Professor McGonagall, there was a certain sense in which it
could be said that Harry had forgotten about the existence of Hermione
Granger, because Harry had been tilting his neck back to look upward
rather than downward, and because he hadn’t considered her a solution to
any of his current problems. Though it was hardly certain, in fact it
wasn’t at all probable, that Harry remembering to look at Hermione or
think about what she must be feeling, would have helped anything in the
slightest.

Harry reached the bottom of the stairs and saw Hermione Granger full on—

Without thinking, without being able to help himself, Harry shut his
eyes, but he’d seen.

Her school robes around her neck, soaked all the way through with tears.

The way she’d been looking away from him.

And the eye of memory and sympathy, which could not be shut, which could
not look away, knew that Hermione had recounted the worst shame of her
life in front of the nobility of magical Britain and Professor
McGonagall and Dumbledore and Harry; and then been sentenced to Azkaban
where she would be exposed to darkness and cold and all her worst
memories until she went mad and died; and then she’d heard that Harry
was going to give away all his money and go into debt to save her, and
maybe even sacrifice his life; and with the Dementor standing only a few
paces behind her, she hadn’t said anything…

“Y-yes,” whispered the voice of Hermione Granger. “I c-can talk.”

Harry opened his eyes again and saw her face, now looking at him. It
didn’t say anything like what he thought Hermione was feeling, faces
couldn’t say anything that complicated, all facial muscles could do was
contort themselves into knots.

“H-H-Harry, I-I’m so, I’m so—”

“Shut up,” Harry suggested.

“s-s-sorry—”

“If you’d never met me on the train you wouldn’t be in any trouble right
now. So shut up,” said Harry Potter.

“Both of you stop being silly,” Professor McGonagall said in her firm
Scottish accent (it was strange how much that helped). “Mr Potter, hold
out your wand so that Miss Granger’s fingers can touch it. Miss Granger,
repeat after me. Upon my life and magic—”

Harry did as he was bid, thrusting his wand forward to touch Hermione’s
fingers; and then Hermione’s faltering voice said, “Upon my life and
magic—”

“I swear service to the House of Potter—” said Professor McGonagall.

And Hermione, without waiting for any further instructions, said, the
words spilling out of her in a rush, “I swear service to the House of
Potter, to obey its Master or Mistress, and stand at their right hand,
and fight at their command, and follow where they go, until the day I
die.”

All those words had been blurted out in a desperate gasp before Harry
could have thought or said anything, if he’d been mad enough to
interrupt.

“Mr Potter, repeat these words,” said Professor McGonagall. “I, Harry,
heir and last scion of the Potters, accept your service, until the end
of the world and its magic.”

Harry took a breath and said, “I, Harry, heir and last scion of the
Potters, accept your service, until the end of the world and its magic.”

“That’s it,” said Professor McGonagall. “Well done.”

Harry looked up, and saw that the entire Wizengamot, whose existence
he’d forgotten, was staring at them.

And then Minerva McGonagall, who was Head of House Gryffindor even if
she didn’t always act like it, looked up high above at where Lucius
Malfoy stood; and she said to him before the entire Wizengamot, “I
regret every point I ever gave you in Transfiguration, you vile little
worm.”

Whatever Lucius was about to say in reply was silenced by a tap of the
short rod in Dumbledore’s hand. “Ahem!” said the old wizard from his
podium of dark stone. “This session has carried on quite considerably,
and if it is not dismissed soon, some of us may miss their entire
luncheon. The law of this matter is clear. You have already voted on the
terms of the bargain, and Lord Malfoy cannot legally decline it. As we
have far exceeded our allotted time, I now, in accordance with the last
decision of the survivors of the eighty-eighth Wizengamot, adjourn this
session.”

The old wizard tapped the rod of dark stone three times.

“You fools!” shouted Lucius Malfoy. The white hair was shaking as though
in a wind, the face beneath was pale with fury. “Do you think you’ll get
away with what you’ve done today? Do you think that girl can try to
murder my son and escape unscathed?”

The toad-like pink–make-up woman, whose name Harry could no longer
remember, was standing up from her seat. “Why, of course not,” she said
with a sickening smile. “After all, the girl is still a murderess, and I
think the Ministry shall be watching her affairs quite closely—it hardly
seems wise that she should be allowed to wander the streets, after all—”

Harry was fed up at this point.

Without waiting to listen, Harry turned on his heel and strode forward
in long steps toward—

The horror only he could truly see, the absence of colour and space, the
wound in the world, above which floated a tattered cloak; most
imperfectly guarded by a running moonlit squirrel and fluttering silver
sparrow.

His dark side had also noticed, when it was looking through the entire
room for anything that could possibly be used as a weapon, that the
enemy had been foolish enough to bring a Dementor into Harry’s presence.
That was a powerful weapon indeed, and one that Harry might wield better
than its supposed masters. There had been a time in Azkaban when Harry
had told twelve Dementors to turn and go, and they had gone.

The Dementors are Death, and the Patronus Charm works by thinking about
happy thoughts instead of Death.

If Harry’s theory was correct, that one sentence would be all it took to
pop the Aurors’ Patronus Charms like a soap bubble, and ensure that
nobody within reach of his voice could cast another one.

I am going to cancel the Patronus Charms and prevent any more Patronuses
from being cast. And then my Dementor, flying faster than any
broomstick, is going to Kiss everyone here who voted to send a
twelve-year-old girl to Azkaban.

Say that, to set up the if-then expectation, and wait for people to
understand and laugh. Then speak the fatal truth; and when the Aurors’
Patronuses winked out to prove the point, either people’s anticipations
of the mindless void, or Harry’s threat of its destruction, would make
the Dementor obey. Those who had sought to compromise with the darkness
would be consumed by it.

It was the other solution his dark side had devised.

Ignoring the gasps rising from behind him, Harry crossed the radius of
the Patronuses, strode to a single pace from Death. Its unhindered fear
burst around him like a whirlpool, like stepping next to the sucking
drain of some huge bathtub emptying out its water; but with the false
Patronuses no longer obscuring the level on which they interacted, Harry
could reach the Dementor even as it could reach him. Harry looked
straight into the pulling vacuum and—

the Earth among the stars

all his triumph at saving Hermione

some day the reality of which you are a shadow will cease to exist

Harry took all the silver emotion that fuelled his Patronus Charm and
shoved it at the Dementor; and expected Death’s shadow to flee from him—

—and as Harry did that, he flung his hands up and shouted “BOO!”

The void retreated sharply away from Harry until it came up against the
dark stone behind.

In the hall there was a deathly silence.

Harry turned his back on the empty void, and looked up at where the
toad-woman stood. She was pale beneath the pink make-up, her mouth
opening and closing like a fish.

“I make you this one offer,” said the Boy-Who-Lived. “I never learn that
you’ve been interfering with me or any of mine. And you never find out
why the unkillable soul-eating monster is scared of me. Now sit down and
shut up.”

The toad-woman fell back down to her bench without a word.

Harry looked further up.

“A riddle, Lord Malfoy!” the Boy-Who-Lived shouted across the Most
Ancient Hall. “I know you weren’t in Ravenclaw, but try to answer this
one anyway! What destroys Dark Lords, frightens Dementors, and owes you
sixty thousand Galleons?”

For an instant Lord Malfoy stood there with eyes slightly widened; then
his face fell back into calm scorn, and his voice spoke coolly in reply.
“Are you openly threatening me, Mr Potter?”

“I’m not threatening you,” said the Boy-Who-Lived. “I’m scaring you.
There’s a difference.”

“Enough, Mr Potter,” said Professor McGonagall. “We shall be late for
afternoon Transfiguration as it is. And do come back here, you’re still
terrifying that poor Dementor.” She turned to the Aurors. “Mr Kleiner,
if you would!”

Harry strode back to them, as the Auror addressed moved forward and
pressed a short rod of dark metal to the dark metal chair, muttering an
inaudible word of dismissal.

The chains slithered back as smoothly as they had come forth; and
Hermione pushed herself out of the chair as fast as she could, and
half-ran and half-staggered forward a few steps.

Harry held out his arms—

—and Hermione half-jumped half-fell into Professor McGonagall’s arms,
beginning to sob hysterically.

Hmpfh, said a voice inside Harry. I kind of thought we’d earned that one
ourselves.

Oh, shut up.

Professor McGonagall was holding Hermione so firmly that you might have
thought it was a mother holding her daughter, or maybe granddaughter.
After a few moments Hermione’s sobs slowed, and then stopped. Professor
McGonagall suddenly shifted her stance and grabbed onto her more
tightly; the girl’s hands were dangling limply, now, and her eyes were
closed—

“She’ll be fine, Mr Potter,” Professor McGonagall said softly in Harry’s
direction, without looking at him. “She just needs a few hours in one of
Madam Pomfrey’s beds.”

“All right, then,” Harry said. “Let’s get her to Madam Pomfrey’s.”

“Yes,” said Dumbledore, as he descended to the bottom of the dark stone
stairs. “Let us all go home, indeed.” His blue eyes were locked on
Harry, as hard as sapphires.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot are departing their wooden
benches, leaving as they came, looking rather nervous.

The vast majority are thinking ‘The Dementor was frightened of the
Boy-Who-Lived!’

Some of the shrewder ones are already wondering how this will affect the
delicate power balance of the Wizengamot—if a new piece has appeared
upon the game board.

Almost none are thinking anything along the lines of ‘I wonder how he
did that.’

This is the truth of the Wizengamot: many are nobles, many are wealthy
magnates of business, a few came by their status in other ways. Some of
them are stupid. Most are shrewd in the realms of business and politics,
but their shrewdness is circumscribed. Almost none have walked the path
of a powerful wizard. They have not read through ancient books,
scrutinized old scrolls, searching for truths too powerful to be told
openly and disguised in conundrums, hunting for true magic among a
hundred fantastic fairy tales. When they are not looking at a contract
of debt, they abandon what shrewdness they possess and relax with some
comfortable nonsense. They believe in the Deathly Hallows, but they also
believe that Merlin fought the dread Totoro and imprisoned the Ree. They
know (because that too is part of the standard legend) that a powerful
wizard must learn to distinguish the truth among a hundred plausible
lies. But it has not occurred to them that they might do the same.

(Why not? Why, indeed, would wizards with enough status and wealth to
turn their hands to almost any endeavour, choose to spend their lives
fighting over lucrative monopolies on ink importation? The Headmaster of
Hogwarts would hardly see the question; of course most people should not
be powerful wizards, just as most people should not be heroes. The
Defence Professor could explain at great and cynical length why their
ambitions are so trivial; to him, too, there is no puzzle. Only Harry
Potter, for all the books he has read, is unable to understand; to the
Boy-Who-Lived the life choices of the Lords and Ladies seem
incomprehensible—not what a good person would do, nor yet an evil person
either. Now which of the three is most wise?)

For whatever reason, then, most of the Wizengamot has never walked the
path that leads to powerful wizardry; they do not seek out what is
hidden. For them, there is no why. There is no explanation. There is no
causality. The Boy-Who-Lived, who was already halfway into the pantheon
of legend, has now been promoted all the way there; and it is a brute
fact, simple and unexplained, that the Boy-Who-Lived frightens
Dementors. Ten years earlier they were told that a one-year-old boy
defeated the most terrible Dark Lord of their generation, perhaps the
most evil Dark Lord ever to live; and they just accepted that too.

You are not meant to question that sort of thing (they know in some
unspoken way). If the most terrible Dark Lord in history, confronts an
innocent baby—why, how could he not be vanquished? The rhythm of the
play demands it. You are supposed to applaud, not stand up from your
seat in the audience and say ‘Why?’ It is just the story’s conceit, that
in the end the Dark Lord is brought down by a little child; and if you
are going to question that, you might as well not attend the play in the
first place.

It does not occur to them to second-guess the application of such
reasoning to the events they have seen with their own eyes in the Most
Ancient Hall. Indeed, they are not consciously aware that they are using
story-reasoning on real life. As for scrutinizing the Boy-Who-Lived with
the same careful logic they would use on a political alliance or a
business arrangement—what brain would associate to that, when a part of
the legendary magisterium is at hand?

But there are a very few, seated on those wooden benches, who do not
think like this.

There are a certain few of the Wizengamot who have read through
half-disintegrated scrolls and listened to tales of things that happened
to someone’s sibling’s cousin, not for entertainment, but as part of a
quest for power and truth. They have already marked the Night of
Godric’s Hollow, as reported by Albus Dumbledore, as an anomalous and
potentially important event. They have wondered why it happened, if it
did happen; or if not, why Dumbledore is lying.

And when an eleven-year-old boy rises up and says “Lucius Malfoy” in
that cold adult voice, and goes on to speak words one simply would not
expect to hear from a first-year in Hogwarts, they do not allow the fact
to slip into the confused blurs of legends and the whimsical premises of
plays.

They mark it as a clue.

They add it to the list.

This list is beginning to look somewhat alarming.

It doesn’t particularly help when the boy yells “BOO!” at a Dementor and
the decaying corpse presses itself flat against the opposite wall and
its horrible ear-hurting voice rasps, “Make him go away.”

82. Taboo Trade-offs, Part Final

PHŒNIX travel was a sensation entirely unlike Apparition or portkeys.
You caught on fire—you definitely felt yourself catching on fire, even
though there was no pain—and instead of burning to ashes, the fire
burned all the way through you and you became fire, and then you went
out in one place and blazed up in another. It didn’t sicken the stomach
like portkeys or Apparition, but it was a rather unnerving experience
nonetheless. If the underlying truth of phœnix travel really was
becoming a specific instantiation of a more general Fire, then that
seemed to hint you could potentially burn anywhere— even in the distant
past, or in another universe, or in two places at once. You might go out
in one place and blaze up in a hundred others, and the you who arrived
at Hogwarts would never know the difference. Though Harry had read what
he could about phœnixes, trying to figure out how to get one of his own,
and there’d been no hint of anything remotely like that capability.

Harry caught fire and went out and blazed up somewhere else; and just
like that he, and the Headmaster, and the unconscious form of Hermione
Granger held in the Headmaster’s arms, were occupying another place;
with Fawkes above them all. A calm, warm room of bright stone columns,
sky-lit on all four sides, populated by white beds in long rows, four of
which had silencing veils drawn around them, and the rest empty.

In one corner of Harry’s vision, a surprised-looking Madam Pomfrey was
turning toward them. Dumbledore seemed to pay the senior healer no heed,
as he carefully laid down Hermione on an unoccupied white bed.

From a distant corner there was a flash of green, and from out of a
fireplace strode Professor McGonagall, brushing herself off slightly
from the Floo ashes.

The old wizard turned from the bed and reached one of his arms around
Harry again; and then the Boy-Who-Lived and his wizard vanished in
another burst of fire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Harry had fully lit up again he was standing in the Headmaster’s
office, amid the noises of a dozen dozen inscrutable gadgets.

The young boy took a step away from the old wizard and then turned on
him, emerald and sapphire eyes meeting.

The two of them did not speak for a time, looking at each other; as
though all they had to speak could be said only by stares, and not said
in any other way.

In time the boy enunciated words slowly and precisely.

“I cannot believe that a phœnix is still upon your shoulder.”

“The phœnix chooses but once,” said the old wizard. “They might perhaps
leave a master who chooses evil over good; they will not leave a master
forced to choose between one good and another. Phœnixes are not
arrogant. They know the limits of their own wisdom.” Stern indeed, that
ancient gaze. “Unlike you, Harry.”

“Choose between one good and another,” Harry echoed flatly. “Like
Hermione Granger’s life, versus a hundred thousand Galleons.” The rage
and indignation Harry wanted to put into his voice wasn’t quite there,
for some reason, maybe because—

“You are hardly in a position to speak to me of that, Harry Potter.” The
Headmaster’s voice was deceptively soft. “Or what was that look of
reluctance that I saw upon your face, there in the Most Ancient Hall?”

The sense of inward hollowness grew worse. “I was looking for other
alternatives,” Harry growled. “Some way to save her that didn’t lose the
money.”

Wow, said Ravenclaw. You just told an outright lie. Not only that, I
think you actually believed it for the seconds it took to say it. That’s
kinda scary.

“Is that what you were thinking, Harry?” The blue eyes were keen, and
there was a terrifying moment when Harry wondered if the world’s most
powerful wizard could see right past his Occlumency barriers.

“Yes,” Harry said, “I flinched away from the pain of losing all the
money in my vault. But I did it! That’s what counts! And you—” The
indignation that had faltered out of Harry’s voice returned. “You
actually put a price on Hermione Granger’s life, and you put it below a
hundred thousand Galleons!”

“Oh?” the old wizard said softly. “And what price do you put on her
life, then? A million Galleons?”

“Are you familiar with the economic concept of ‘replacement value’?” The
words were spilling from Harry’s lips almost faster than he could
consider them. “Hermione’s replacement value is infinite! There’s
nowhere I can go to buy another one!”

Now you’re just talking mathematical nonsense, said Slytherin.
Ravenclaw, back me up here?

“Is Minerva’s life also of infinite worth?” the old wizard said harshly.
“Would you sacrifice Minerva to save Hermione?”

“Yes and yes,” Harry snapped. “That’s part of Professor McGonagall’s job
and she knows it.”

“Then Minerva’s value is not infinite,” said the old wizard, “for all
that she is loved. There can only be one king upon a chessboard, Harry
Potter, only one piece that you will sacrifice any other piece to save.
And Hermione Granger is not that piece. Make no mistake, Harry Potter,
this day you may well have lost your war.”

And if the old wizard’s words hadn’t hit quite so hard, and quite so
close to home, Harry might not have said what he said then.

“Lucius was right,” Harry ground out. “You never had a wife, you never
had a daughter, you’ve never had anything but war—”

The old wizard’s left hand closed hard upon Harry’s wrist, bony fingers
digging into the still-developing muscle of Harry’s arm, and for a
moment Harry was paralysed with the shock of it, he had forgotten what
it meant that adults were stronger.

Albus Dumbledore did not seem to notice. He only turned, dragging Harry
with him, and moved forward in hard steps toward the wall of the room.

“Phœnix’s price.”

Harry was pulled up along the black stairs.

“Phœnix’s fate.”

The room of black pedestals, silver light falling on shattered wands.

“You think,” yelled Harry, after his lips unlocked, “that you can win
any argument, just by standing here?”

The old wizard ignored him, dragging Harry across the room. His right
hand, no longer holding his wand, grabbed up a vial of silver fluid—

Harry blinked in shock; the vial of silver fluid had been standing next
to a picture of Dumbledore, or so it had appeared to Harry in the brief
moment before he was dragged past.

Past the end of all the pedestals, at the farthest part of the room,
rose a great stone basin with runes carved into it that Harry didn’t
recognize. The centre was a shallow depression filled with transparent
liquid, and into this the old wizard dumped the canister of silver
fluid, which at once began to spread out, to swirl, to set the entire
basin glowing eerie white.

The old wizard’s hand let go of Harry’s arm and gestured to the glowing
basin, commanding harshly, “Look!”

As requested, Harry stared at the glowing water.

“Put your head into the Pensieve, Harry Potter.” The old wizard’s voice
was stern.

Harry had heard that word before, but he couldn’t remember where .
“What—does this do—”

“Memories,” the old wizard said. “You will see my memory. My oath that
it is safe. Now look into the Pensieve, Ravenclaw, if you still care
anything at all for your precious truth!”

That was a request that Harry could not deny, and he stepped forward and
thrust his head into the glowing water.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry was sitting behind the desk in the Headmaster’s office of
Hogwarts, and his wrinkled hands that clutched at his head were spotted
with age and white hairs.

“He is all that I have!” wept a voice, very strange was Dumbledore’s
voice as Dumbledore himself remembered it, from the inside it seemed far
less stern and wise. “The last of my family! All that I have left!”

No emotion had been allowed to pass through the Pensieve, only the
physical sensation of seeming to speak the words. Harry heard the utter
desolation in Dumbledore’s words, the sounds that seemed to come from
Harry’s own throat, but Harry did not feel it beyond the hearing.

“You’ve got no choice,” said a harsh voice.

The eyes moved, the field of vision jumped to a man that Harry didn’t
recognize, in clothing tinged with Auror crimson but made of solid
leather with many pockets.

His right eye was overlarge, with an electric-blue pupil that constantly
darted and moved.

“You cannot ask this of me, Alastor!” Dumbledore’s voice was wild. “Not
this! Anything but this!”

“I’m not asking,” growled the man. “Voldie’s the one who’s asking, and
you’re going to tell him no.”

“For money, Alastor?” Dumbledore’s voice was begging. “Only for money?”

“You ransom Aberforth, you lose the war,” the man said sharply. “That
simple. One hundred thousand Galleons is nearly all we’ve got in the
war-chest, and if you use it like this, it won’t be refilled. What’ll
you do, try to convince the Potters to empty their vault like the
Longbottoms already did? Voldie’s just going to kidnap someone else and
make another demand. Alice, Minerva, anyone you care about, they’ll all
be targets if you pay off the Death Eaters. That’s not the lesson you
should be trying to teach them.”

“If I do this I will have no-one. No-one.” Dumbledore’s voice broke, the
world tilted as the head whose eyes Harry looked through fell down into
the ancient hands, and awful sounds came from not-Harry’s throat as he
began to sob like a child.

“Shall I tell Voldie’s messenger no?” said Alastor’s voice, now
strangely gentle. “You don’t have to do it yourself, old friend.”

“No—I will say it myself—I must—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The memory ended with a shock and Harry ripped his head out of the
glowing water, gasping as though he’d been deprived of air.

The transition between scenes, between decade-old reality and present
moment, was another jolt to Harry’s mind; in some fashion his immersion
in the past had unanchored him. The broken old man sobbing in his office
had been another person in another era, Harry had understood that much;
someone softer—

Before it had all vanished like dissipating smoke, returning the now,
the present day.

Terrible and stern stood the ancient wizard, like he was carven from
stone; beard woven of thread like iron, half-moon glasses like mirrors,
and the pupils behind as sharp and unyielding as black diamond.

“Do you also wish to see my brother as he died under the Cruciatus?”
said Albus Dumbledore. “Voldemort sent me that memory too!”

“And that—” Harry was having trouble producing a voice, for the growing
sickness in his stomach. “That was when—” The words seemed to burn in
his throat, as the awful knowledge dawned on him, the horrible
understanding. “That was when you burned Narcissa Malfoy alive in her
own bedroom.”

Albus Dumbledore’s gaze was cold as he answered. “To that question only
a fool would say yea or nay. What matters is that the Death Eaters
believe I killed her, and that belief kept safe the families of all who
served the Order of the Phœnix—until this day. Now do you understand
what you have done? What you have done to your friends, Harry Potter,
and to any that stand with you?” The old wizard seemed to grow still
taller and more terrible, as his voice rose louder. “You have made them
all targets, and targets they will remain! Until you prove, the only way
it can be proven, that you are no longer willing to pay such prices!”

“And is it true?” Harry said. There was a buzzing sensation filling him,
his body growing more distant. “What Draco said, that Narcissa Malfoy
never got her hands dirty, that she was only Lucius’s wife? She was an
enabler, I get that, but I can’t back that deserving being burned
alive.”

“Nothing less would have convinced them that I was done with
hesitation.” The old wizard’s voice brooked no question and no refusal.
“Always I was too reluctant to do as I must, always it was others who
paid the cost of my mercy. So Alastor told me from the beginning, but I
did not listen to him. You, I expect, shall prove better at such
decisions than I.”

“I’m surprised,” Harry said, amazed that his voice was almost steady. “I
would have expected the Death Eaters to go after another Light family
and start a cycle of escalating retaliation, if you didn’t get them all
with your first strike.”

“If my opponent had been Lucius, perhaps.” Dumbledore’s eyes were like
stones. “I am told that Voldemort laughed at the news, and proclaimed to
his Death Eaters that I had finally grown, and was at last a worthy
opponent. Perhaps he was right. After the day I condemned my brother to
his death, I began to weigh those who followed me, balancing them one
against another, asking who I would risk, and who I would sacrifice, to
what end. It was strange how many fewer pieces I lost, once I knew what
they were worth.”

Harry’s jaw seemed locked, like it took a massive effort to make his
lips move. “But then it’s not like Lucius was deliberately taking
Hermione for ransom,” Harry’s voice said thinly. “From Lucius’s
perspective, someone else broke the truce first. So with that in mind,
how many Galleons was Hermione worth, exactly? Leaving aside the
Danegeld thing, if it was just some ordinary threat to her life, how
much should I have paid to save her? Ten thousand Galleons? Five
thousand?”

The old wizard did not answer.

“It’s a funny thing,” Harry said, his voice wavering like something seen
through water. “Do you know, the day I went in front of the Dementor,
what my worst memory was? It was my parents dying. I heard their voices
and everything.”

The old wizard’s eyes widened behind the half-moon glasses.

“And here’s the thing,” Harry said, “here’s the thing I’ve been thinking
about over and over. The Dark Lord gave Lily Potter the chance to walk
away. He said that she could flee. He told her that dying in front of
the crib wouldn’t save her baby. ‘Step aside, foolish woman, if you have
any sense in you at all—’” An awful chill came over Harry as he spoke
those words from his own lips, but he shook it off and continued. “And
afterwards I kept thinking, I couldn’t seem to stop myself from
thinking, wasn’t the Dark Lord right? If only Mother had stepped away.
She tried to curse the Dark Lord but it was suicide, she had to have
known that it was suicide. Her choice wasn’t between her life and mine,
her choice was for herself to live or for both of us to die! If she’d
only done the logical thing and walked away, I mean, I love Mum too, but
Lily Potter would be alive right now and she would be my mother!” Tears
were blurring Harry’s eyes. “Only now I understand, I know what Mother
must have felt. She couldn’t step aside from the crib. She couldn’t!
Love doesn’t walk away!”

It was like the old wizard had been struck, struck by a chisel that
shattered him straight down the middle.

“What have I said?” the old wizard whispered. “What have I said to you?”

“I don’t know!” shouted Harry. “I wasn’t listening either!”

“I—I’m sorry, Harry—I—” The old wizard pressed his hands to his face,
and Harry saw that Albus Dumbledore was weeping. “I should not have
said, such things to you—I should not, have resented, your innocence—”

Harry stared at the wizard for another second, and then Harry turned and
marched out of the black room, down the stairs, through the office—

“I really don’t know why you’re still on his shoulder,” Harry said to
Fawkes.

—out the oaken door and into the endlessly turning spiral.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry had arrived in the Transfiguration classroom before anyone else,
before even Professor McGonagall. There was Charms class earlier, for
his year, but that he hadn’t even bothered trying to attend. Whether
Professor McGonagall would make today’s class he didn’t know. There was
something ominous about all the empty desks beside him, the absence at
the board. As if he stood alone in Hogwarts, with all his friends
departed.

According to the class schedule, today’s lesson was on sustained
Transfigurations, all the rules of which Harry had learned by heart back
when he was Transfiguring a huge rock into the small diamond that shone
on his pinky finger. It would be a theoretical subject, rather than
practical, for the rest of the class; which was a pity, because he could
have used a dose of Transfiguration’s trance.

Harry noted distantly that his hand was trembling, to the point where he
had trouble undoing the pouch’s drawstring as he drew forth the
Transfiguration textbook.

You were monstrously unfair to Dumbledore, said the voice Harry had been
calling Slytherin, only now it also seemed to be the Voice of Economic
Sensibility and maybe also Conscience.

Harry’s eyes dropped down to his textbook, but the section was so
familiar it might as well have been a blank parchment.

Dumbledore fought a war against a Dark Lord who deliberately set out to
break him in the cruellest possible way. He had to choose between losing
his war and his brother. Albus Dumbledore knows, he learned in the worst
possible way, that there are limits to the value of one life; and it
almost broke his sanity to admit it. But you, Harry Potter—you already
knew better.

“Shut up,” the boy whispered to the empty Transfiguration classroom,
though there was nobody there to hear it.

You’d already read about Philip Tetlock’s experiments on people asked to
trade off a sacred value against a secular one, like a hospital
administrator who has to choose between spending a million dollars on a
liver to save a five-year-old, and spending the million dollars to buy
other hospital equipment or pay doctors’ salaries. And the subjects in
the experiment became indignant and wanted to punish the hospital
administrator for even thinking about the choice. Do you remember
reading about that, Harry Potter? Do you remember thinking how very
stupid that was, since if hospital equipment and doctor salaries didn’t
also save lives, there would be no point in having hospitals or doctors?
Should the hospital administrator have paid a billion pounds for that
liver, even if it meant the hospital going bankrupt the next day?

“Shut up!” the boy whispered.

Every time you spend money in order to save a life with some
probability, you establish a lower bound on the monetary value of a
life. Every time you refuse to spend money to save a life with some
probability, you establish an upper bound on the monetary value of life.
If your upper bounds and lower bounds are inconsistent, it means you
could move money from one place to another, and save more lives at the
same cost. So if you want to use a bounded amount of money to save as
many lives as possible, your choices must be consistent with some
monetary value assigned to a human life; if not then you could reshuffle
the same money and do better. How very sad, how very hollow the
indignation, of those who refuse to say that money and life can ever be
compared, when all they’re doing is forbidding the strategy that saves
the most people, for the sake of pretentious moral grandstanding…

You knew that, and you still said what you did to Dumbledore.

You deliberately tried to hurt Dumbledore’s feelings.

He’s never tried to hurt you, Harry Potter, not once.

Harry’s head dropped into his hands.

Why had Harry said what he’d said, to a sad old ancient wizard who’d
fought hard and endured more than anyone should ever have to endure?
Even if the old wizard was wrong, did he deserve to be hurt for it,
after all that had happened to him? Why was there a part of him that
seemed to get angry at the old wizard beyond reason, lashing out at him
harder than Harry had ever hit anyone, without thought of moderation
once the rage had been raised, only to quiet as soon as Harry left his
presence?

Is it because you know Dumbledore won’t fight back? That no matter what
you say to him, however unfair, he’ll never use his own power against
you, he’ll never treat you the way you treat him? Is this the way you
treat people when you know they won’t hit back? James Potter’s bullying
genes, manifesting at last?

Harry closed his eyes.

Like the Sorting Hat speaking inside his head—

What is the real reason for your anger?

What do you fear?

A whirlwind of images seemed to flash through Harry’s mind, then, the
past Dumbledore weeping into his hands; the present form of the old
wizard, standing tall and terrible; a vision of Hermione screaming in
her chains, in the metal chair, as Harry abandoned her to the Dementors;
and an imagination of a woman with long white hair (had she looked like
her husband?) falling amid the flames of her bedroom, as a wand was held
upon her and orange light reflected from half-moon glasses.

Albus Dumbledore had seemed to think that Harry would be better at that
sort of thing than him.

And Harry knew that he probably would be. He knew the maths, after all.

But it was understood, somehow it was understood, that utilitarian
ethicists didn’t actually rob banks so they could give the money to the
poor. The end result of throwing away all ethical constraint wouldn’t
actually be sunshine and roses and happiness for all. The prescription
of consequentialism was to take the action that led to the best net
consequences, not actions that had one positive consequence and wrecked
everything else along the way. Expected utility maximizers were allowed
to take common sense into account, when they were calculating their
expectations.

Somehow Harry had understood that; even before anyone else had warned
him, he’d understood. Before he’d read about Vladimir Lenin or the
history of the French Revolution, he’d known. It might have been his
earliest science-fiction books warning him about people with good
intentions, or maybe Harry had just seen the logic for himself. Somehow
he’d known from the very beginning, that if he stepped outside his
ethics whenever there was a reason, the end result wouldn’t be good.

A final image came to him, then: Lily Potter standing in front of her
baby’s crib and measuring the intervals between outcomes: the final
outcome if she stayed and tried to curse her enemy (dead Lily, dead
Harry), the final outcome if she walked away (live Lily, dead Harry),
weighing the expected utilities, and making the only sensible choice.

She would’ve been Harry’s mother if she had.

“But human beings can’t live like that,” the boy’s lips whispered to the
empty classroom. “Human beings can’t live like that.”

83. Taboo Trade-offs, Aftermath, Part I

WHEN Padma entered the Transfiguration classroom, she saw that half the
class had beaten her there, a strange, deathly silence pervading the
room. Harry Potter sat alone in one corner, staring off into some
unknown distance, his eyes half-lidded, nearly closed.

Rumour said that the Aurors had discovered that the Defence Professor
had Polyjuiced as Granger to fool Malfoy.

Rumour said that Hermione had been bound by the Unbreakable Vow to be
Draco Malfoy’s slave.

Rumour said that Hermione had had the Dementor’s Kiss.

But if that were true, Harry Potter wouldn’t be sitting there, he would
be—

Padma didn’t know what General Potter would do. Her mind went blank,
trying to think about it.

Even when Professor McGonagall got there, the silence hadn’t broken. The
Transfiguration Professor walked up to the board without a pause, erased
it with a sweep of her hand, and then began to write.

“Today, children,” began the calm professional voice of the
Transfiguration Professor, just as though nothing out of the ordinary
had happened that week, “we shall learn how much effort it takes to
sustain a Transfiguration, and why, at your age, you should not even
try. The original Form is not gone, only suppressed; and to maintain
that suppression—”

“Excuse me,” said Padma Patil. She knew her voice was shaking, she knew
that she was trembling visibly, but she had to ask. “Excuse me,
Professor, what happened with Miss Granger?”

The Transfiguration Professor paused at the board, and turned to look at
Padma. The Professor should have looked stern, having been interrupted
without a hand being raised, but instead her face was kindly. “You don’t
already know, Miss Patil? I expected that rumour would have spread.”

“There’s too many rumours,” said Padma. “I don’t know what’s true.”

Morag MacDougal raised her hand, then said without waiting to be called,
“I told you, Padma, what’s true is that the Wizengamot found Granger
guilty and ordered her to get the Dementor’s Kiss and they brought in
the Dementor and Potter glued it to the ceiling and wouldn’t let it down
until—”

“Oh, dear Merlin,” said Professor McGonagall, her expression growing
sharp, but then she visibly calmed herself. “The affair was utterly
ridiculous and I shan’t go into detail. Let it stand that Miss Granger
is resting with Madam Pomfrey for now, and coming back to classes
tomorrow. And if I catch anyone bothering her, I shall turn them into
glass vases and drop them.”

The entire class gasped at this; it wasn’t so much that the threat was
fatal, as that it broke the safety rules for Transfiguration.

Professor McGonagall turned back to her board—

From a corner of the classroom, another voice rose up. “What about
Professor Quirrell?” said Terry Boot. “Has he been arrested?”

“The Aurors are only detaining him,” said the Transfiguration Professor
without turning around. “If they have not given back our Defence
Professor by tomorrow, I shall ask the Headmaster to go fetch him.
Though I may as well tell you now that the Board of Governors has
scheduled a vote on whether Professor Quirrell’s battles shall be
allowed to continue.”

Kevin Entwhistle spoke. “And General Malfoy? When’s he getting back from
St. Mungo’s?”

The Transfiguration Professor paused in her drawing.

She turned around again, more slowly, this time.

“I am sorry, Mr Entwhistle,” said Professor McGonagall. Her face looked
a little more lined than when she had entered the room. “Mr Malfoy’s
health is in no danger, I am given to understand. Unfortunately, I have
received an owl from Mr Malfoy’s father withdrawing him from Hogwarts. I
am afraid he is not coming back.”

84. Taboo Trade-offs, Aftermath, Part II

WHEN Hermione Granger woke, she found herself lying in a soft,
comfortable bed of the Hogwarts infirmary, with a square of setting
sunlight falling on her midriff, warm through the thin blanket. Memory
said that there would be a screen-sheet above her, either drawn around
her bed or open, and that the rest of Madam Pomfrey’s domain would lie
beyond: the other beds, occupied or unoccupied, and bright windows set
in the curvily-carven stone of Hogwarts.

When Hermione opened her eyes, the first thing she saw was the face of
Professor McGonagall, sitting on the left side of her bed. Professor
Flitwick wasn’t there, but that was understandable, he’d stayed by her
side all morning in the detention cell, his silver raven standing extra
guard against the Dementor and his stern little face always turned
outward toward the Aurors. The Head of Ravenclaw had surely spent way
too much time on her, and probably had to get back to teaching his
classes, instead of keeping watch on a convicted attempted-murderess.

She felt horribly, horribly sick and she didn’t think it was because of
any potions. Hermione would’ve started crying again, only her throat
hurt, her eyes still burned, and her mind just felt tired. She couldn’t
have borne to weep again, couldn’t find the strength for tears.

“Where are my parents?” Hermione whispered to the Head of House
Gryffindor. Somehow it seemed like the worst thing in the world to face
them, even worse than everything else; and yet she still wanted to see
them.

The gentle look on Professor McGonagall’s face Transfigured into
something sadder. “I’m sorry, Miss Granger. Though it was not always so,
we have found in recent years that it is wiser not to tell the parents
of Muggle-borns about any danger their child has faced. I should advise
you also to remain silent, if you wish to stay at Hogwarts without
trouble from them.”

“I’m not being expelled?” the girl whispered. “For what I did?”

“No,” said Professor McGonagall. “Miss Granger… surely you heard… I hope
you heard Mr Potter, when he said that you were innocent?”

“He was just saying that,” she said dully. “To get me free, I mean.”

The older witch shook her head firmly. “No, Miss Granger. Mr Potter
believes you were Memory-Charmed, that the whole duel never happened.
The Headmaster suspects even Darker magics may have been involved—that
your own hand might have cast the spell, but not your own will. Even
Professor Snape finds the affair completely unbelievable, though he may
not be able to say so publicly. He was wondering if Muggle drugs might
have been used on you.”

Hermione’s eyes went on staring distantly at the Transfiguration
Professor; she knew that she’d just been told something significant, but
she couldn’t find the energy to propagate any changes through her mind.

“Surely you don’t believe it?” said Professor McGonagall. “Miss Granger,
you cannot believe of yourself that you would turn to murder!”

“But I—” Her excellent memory helpfully replayed it for the thousandth
time, Draco Malfoy telling her with a sneer that she’d never beat him
when he wasn’t tired, and then proceeding to prove just that, dancing
like a duellist between the warded trophies while she frantically
scrambled, and dealing the ending blow with a hex that sent her crashing
against the wall and drew blood from her cheek—and then—then she’d—

“But you remember doing it,” said the older witch, who was watching over
her with kindly understanding. “Miss Granger, there is no need for a
twelve-year-old girl to bear such dreadful memories. Say the word and I
shall be happy to lock them away for you.”

It was like a glass of warm water thrown into her face. “What?”

Professor McGonagall took out her wand, a gesture so practised and quick
that it seemed like pointing a finger. “I can’t offer to rid you of the
memories entirely, Miss Granger,” the Transfiguration Professor said
with her customary precision. “There may be important facts buried
there. But there is a form of the Memory Charm which is reversible, and
I shall be happy to cast that on you.”

Hermione stared at the wand, feeling the stirrings of hope for the first
time in almost two days.

Make it not’ve happened… she’d wished that over and over again, for the
hands of time to turn back and erase the horrible choice that could
never, ever be undone. And if erasing the memory wasn’t that, it was
still a kind of release…

She looked back at Professor McGonagall’s kindly face.

“You really don’t think I did it?” Hermione said, her voice trembling.

“I am quite certain you would never do such a thing of your own will.”

Beneath her blankets, Hermione’s hands clutched at the sheets. “Harry
doesn’t think I did it?”

“Mr Potter is of the opinion that your memories are entire fabrications.
I can rather see his point.”

Then Hermione’s clutching fingers let go of the sheet, and she slumped
back into the bed, from which she’d partially risen.

No.

She hadn’t said anything.

She’d woken up and remembered what had happened last night, and it had
been like—like—she couldn’t find words even in her own thoughts for what
it had been like. But she’d known that Draco Malfoy was already dead,
and she hadn’t said anything, hadn’t gone to Professor Flitwick and
confessed. She’d just dressed herself and gone down to breakfast and
tried to act normal so that nobody would ever know, and she’d known it
was wrong and Wrong and horribly horribly WRONG but she’d been so, so
scared—

Even if Harry Potter was right, even if the duel with Draco Malfoy was a
lie, she’d made that choice all by herself. She didn’t deserve to forget
that, or be forgiven for it.

And if she had done the right thing, gone straight to Professor
Flitwick, maybe that would’ve—helped, somehow, maybe everyone would’ve
seen then that she regretted it, and Harry wouldn’t have had to give
away all his money to save her—

Hermione shut her eyes, squeezed them shut really tight, she couldn’t
bear to start crying again. “I’m a horrible person,” she said in a
wavering voice. “I’m awful, I’m not heroic at all—”

Professor McGonagall’s voice was very sharp, like Hermione had just made
some dreadful mistake on her Transfiguration homework. “Stop being
foolish, Miss Granger! Horrible is whoever did this to you. And as for
being heroic—well, Miss Granger, you have already heard my opinion about
young girls trying to involve themselves in such things before they are
even fourteen, so I shall not lecture you on it again. I shall say only
that you have just had an absolutely dreadful experience, which you
survived as well as any witch in your year possibly could. Today you are
allowed to cry as much as you like. Tomorrow you are going back to
class.”

That was when Hermione knew that Professor McGonagall couldn’t help her.
She needed someone to scold her, she couldn’t be absolved if she
couldn’t be blamed, and Professor McGonagall would never do that for
her, would never ask so much of a little Ravenclaw girl.

It was something Harry Potter wouldn’t help her with either.

Hermione turned over in the infirmary bed, huddling into herself, away
from Professor McGonagall. “Please,” she whispered. “I want to talk—to
the Headmaster—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hermione.”

When Hermione Granger opened her eyes a second time, she saw the
care-lined face of Albus Dumbledore leaning over her bedside, looking
almost as though he’d been crying, though that was impossible; and
Hermione felt another stabbing pang of guilt for having bothered him so.

“Minerva said you wished to speak with me,” the old wizard said.

“I—” Suddenly Hermione didn’t know at all what to say. Her throat locked
up, and all she could do was stammer, “I—I’m—”

Somehow her tone must have communicated the other word, the one she
couldn’t even say any more.

“Sorry?” said Dumbledore. “Why, for what should you be sorry?”

She had to force the words out of her throat. “You were telling
Harry—that he shouldn’t pay—so I shouldn’t—have done what Professor
McGonagall said, I shouldn’t have touched his wand—”

“My dear,” said Dumbledore, “had you not pledged yourself to the House
of Potter, Harry would have attacked Azkaban single-handedly, and quite
possibly won. That boy may choose his words carefully, but I have never
yet known him to lie; and in the Boy-Who-Lived there is power that the
Dark Lord never knew. He would indeed have tried to break Azkaban, even
at cost of his life.” The old wizard’s voice grew gentler, and kinder.
“No, Hermione, you have nothing at all for which to blame yourself.”

“I could have made him not do it.”

In Dumbledore’s eyes a small twinkle appeared before it was lost to
weariness. “Really, Miss Granger? Perhaps you should be Headmistress in
my place, for I myself have no such power over stubborn children.”

“Harry promised—” Her voice stopped. The awful truth was very hard to
speak. “Harry Potter promised me—that he would never help me—if I told
him not to.”

There was a pause. The distant noises of the infirmary that had
accompanied Professor McGonagall had ceased, Hermione realized, when
Dumbledore had awoken her. From where she lay in bed she could see only
the ceiling, and the top of one wall’s windows, but nothing in her range
of vision moved, and if there were sounds, she could not hear them.

“Ah,” said Dumbledore. The old wizard sighed heavily. “I suppose it is
possible that the boy would have kept his promise.”

“I should—I should’ve—”

“Gone to Azkaban of your own will?” Dumbledore said. “Miss Granger, that
is more than I would ever ask anyone to take upon themselves.”

“But—” Hermione swallowed. She couldn’t help but notice the loophole,
anyone who wanted to get through the portrait door to the Ravenclaw dorm
quickly learned to pay attention to exact wordings. “But it’s not more
than you’d take on yourself.”

“Hermione—” the old wizard began.

“Why?” said Hermione’s voice, it seemed to be running on without her
mind, now. “Why couldn’t I be braver? I was going to run in front of the
Dementor—for Harry—before, I mean, in January—so why—why—why couldn’t
I—” Why had the thought of being sent to Azkaban just completely unglued
her, why had she forgotten everything about being Good—

“My dear girl,” Dumbledore said. The blue eyes behind the half-moon
glasses showed a complete understanding of her guilt. “I would have done
no better myself, in my first year in Hogwarts. As you would be kind to
others, be kinder to yourself as well.”

“So I did do the wrong thing.” Somehow she needed to say that, to be
told that, even though she already knew.

There was a pause.

“Listen, young Ravenclaw,” the old wizard said, “hear me well, for I
shall speak to you a truth. Most ill-doers do not think of themselves as
evil; indeed, most conceive themselves the heroes of the stories they
tell. I once thought that the greatest evil in this world was done in
the name of the greater good. I was wrong. Terribly wrong. There is evil
in this world which knows itself for evil, and hates the good with all
its strength. All fair things does it desire to destroy.”

Hermione shivered in her bed, somehow it seemed very real, when
Dumbledore said it.

The old wizard continued speaking. “You are one of the fair things of
this world, Hermione Granger, and so that evil hates you as well. If you
had stayed firm through even this trial, it would have struck you harder
and yet harder, until you shattered. Do not think that heroes cannot be
broken! We are only more difficult to break, Hermione.” The old wizard’s
eyes had grown sterner than she had ever seen. “When you have been
exhausted for many hours, when pain and death is not a passing fear but
a certainty, then it is harder to be a hero. If I must speak the
truth—then today, yes, I would not waver in the face of Azkaban. But
when I was a first-year in Hogwarts—I would have fled from the Dementor
that you confronted, for my father had died in Azkaban, and I feared
them. Know this! The evil that struck at you could have broken anyone,
even myself. Only Harry Potter has it within him to face that horror,
when he has come fully into his power.”

Hermione’s neck couldn’t stare at the old wizard any longer; she let her
head fall back, back to the pillow, where she stared up at the ceiling,
absorbing what she could.

“Why?” Her voice trembled again. “Why would anyone be that evil? I don’t
understand.”

“I, too, have wondered,” said Dumbledore’s voice, a deep sadness in it.
“For thrice ten years I wondered, and I still do not understand. You and
I will never understand, Hermione Granger. But at least I know now what
true evil would say for itself, if we could speak to it and ask why it
was evil. It would say, Why not?”

A brief flare of indignation inside her. “There’s got to be a million
reasons why not!”

“Indeed,” said Dumbledore’s voice. “A million reasons and more. We will
always know those reasons, you and I. If you insist on putting it that
way—then yes, Hermione, this day’s trial broke you. But what happens
after you break—that, too, is part of being a hero. Which you are,
Hermione Granger, and will always be.”

She raised her head again, staring at him.

The old wizard got up from beside her bed. His silver beard dipped down,
as Dumbledore bowed to her gravely, and left.

She went on looking at where the old wizard had gone.

It should have meant something to her, should have touched her. Should
have made her felt better inside, that Dumbledore, who had seemed so
reluctant before, had now acknowledged her as a hero.

She felt nothing.

Hermione let her head fall back to the bed, as Madam Pomfrey came and
made her drink something that seared her lips like the afterburn of
spicy food, and smelled even hotter, and didn’t taste like anything at
all. It meant nothing to her. She went on staring up at the distant
stone tiles of the ceiling.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva was waiting, doing her best not to hover, beside the double
doors to the Hogwarts infirmary, she’d always thought of those doors as
“the ominous gates” as a child in Hogwarts, and couldn’t help but
remember that now. Too much bad news had been spoken here—

Albus stepped out. The old wizard did not pause on the way out of the
infirmary, only kept walking toward Professor Flitwick’s office; and
Minerva followed him.

Professor McGonagall cleared her throat. “Is it done, Albus?”

The old wizard nodded in affirmation. “If any hostile magic is cast on
her, or any spirit touches her, I shall know, and come.”

“I spoke to Mr Potter after Transfiguration class,” said Professor
McGonagall. “He was of the opinion that Miss Granger should go to
Beauxbatons, rather than Hogwarts, from now on.”

The old wizard shook his head. “No. If Voldemort truly desires to strike
at Miss Granger—he is tenacious beyond measure. His servants are
returning to him, he could not have retrieved Bellatrix alone. Azkaban
itself is not safe from his malice, and as for Beauxbatons—no, Minerva.
I do not think Voldemort can essay such possessions often, or against
stronger targets, or this year would have gone quite differently. And
Harry Potter is here, whom Voldemort must fear whether he admits it or
no. Now that I have warded her, Miss Granger will be safer within
Hogwarts than without.”

“Mr Potter seemed to doubt that,” Minerva said. She couldn’t quite keep
the edge from her voice; there was a part of her that agreed rather
strongly. “He seemed to feel that common sense said Miss Granger should
continue her education anywhere but Hogwarts.”

The old wizard sighed. “I fear the boy has spent too much time among the
Muggles. Always they reach for safety; always they imagine that safety
can be reached. If Miss Granger is not safe within the centre of our
fortress, she shall be no safer for leaving it.”

“Not everyone seems to think so,” said Professor McGonagall. It had been
almost the first letter she’d seen when she’d taken a quick look at her
desk; an envelope of the finest sheepskin, sealed in greenish-silver
wax, pressed into the image of a snake that rose and hissed at her. “I
have received Lord Malfoy’s owl withdrawing his son from Hogwarts.”

The old wizard nodded, but did not break stride. “Does Harry know?”

“Yes.” Her voice faltered, for a moment, remembering Harry’s expression.
“After class, Mr Potter complimented Lord Malfoy’s excellent good sense,
and said that he would be writing Madam Longbottom advising her to do
the same with her grandson, in case he was the next target. In the event
that Mr Longbottom’s guardian was so negligent as to keep him in
Hogwarts, Mr Potter wanted him to have a Time-Turner, an invisibility
cloak, a broomstick, and a pouch in which to carry them; also a toe-ring
with an emergency portkey to a safe location, in case someone kidnaps
Mr Longbottom and takes him outside Hogwarts’s wards. I told Mr Potter
that I did not think the Ministry would consent to such use of our
Time-Turners, and he said that we should not ask. I expect he will want
Miss Granger to receive the same, if she stays. And for himself
Mr Potter wants a three-person broomstick to carry in his pouch.” She
wasn’t awed by the list of precautions. Impressed with the cleverness,
but not awed; she was a Transfiguration Mistress, after all. But it
still sent shivers of disquiet through her, that Harry Potter now
thought Hogwarts as dangerous as spell research.

“The Department of Mysteries is not lightly defied,” said Albus. “But
for the rest—” The old wizard seemed to slump in on himself slightly.
“We may as well give the boy what he wishes. And I will ward Neville
also, and write Augusta to say that he should stay here over holiday.”

“And finally,” she said, “Mr Potter says—this is a direct quote,
Albus—whatever kind of Dark Wizard attractant the Headmaster is keeping
here, he needs to get it out of this school, now.” She couldn’t stop the
edge in her own voice, that time.

“I asked as much of Flamel,” Albus said, the pain clear in his voice.
“But Master Flamel has said—that even he can no longer keep safe the
Stone—that he believes Voldemort has means of finding it wherever it is
hidden—and that he does not consent for it to be guarded anywhere but
Hogwarts. Minerva, I am sorry, but it must be done—must!”

“Very well,” said Professor McGonagall. “But for myself, I think that
Mr Potter is right on every single count.”

The old wizard glanced at her, and his voice caught as he said,
“Minerva, you have known me long, and as well as any soul still
living—tell me, have I lost myself to darkness already?”

“What?” said Professor McGonagall in genuine surprise. Then, “Oh, Albus,
no!”

The old wizard’s lips pressed together tightly before he spoke. “For the
greater good. I have sacrificed so many, for the greater good. Today I
almost condemned Hermione Granger to Azkaban for the greater good. And I
find myself—today, I found myself—beginning to resent the innocence that
is no longer mine—” The old wizard’s voice halted. “Evil done in the
name of good. Evil done in the name of evil. Which is worse?”

“You are being silly, Albus.”

The old wizard glanced at her again, before turning his eyes back to
their way. “Tell me, Minerva—did you pause to weigh the consequences,
before you told Miss Granger how to bind herself to the Potter family?”

She took an involuntary breath as she understood what she had done—

“So you did not.” Albus’s eyes were saddened. “No, Minerva, you must not
apologize. It is well. For what you have seen of me this day—if your
first loyalty is now to Harry Potter, and not to me, then that is right
and proper.” She opened her lips to protest, but Albus went on before
she could say a word. “Indeed—indeed—that will be necessary and more
than necessary, if the Dark Lord that Harry must defeat to come into his
power is not Voldemort after all—”

“Not this again!” Minerva said. “Albus, it was You-Know-Who, not you,
who marked Harry as his equal. There is no possible way that the
prophecy could be talking about you!”

The old wizard nodded, but his eyes still seemed distant, fixed only on
the road ahead.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The holding cell, well to the centre of Magical Law Enforcement, was
luxuriously appointed; more a remark on what adult wizards took for
granted, than any special feeling toward prisoners. There was a
self-reclining, self-rocking chair with plush, richly textured,
self-warming cushions. There was a bookcase containing random books
rescued from a bargain bin, and a full shelf of ancient magazines,
including one from 1883. As for toiletries, well, it wasn’t exactly
luxurious, but there was a spell on the room which put all that business
on hold; you weren’t to go anywhere that the watching Auror couldn’t see
you. But aside from that, it was quite a pleasant little cell. The
Defence Professor of Hogwarts was being detained, not arrested, not even
intimidated. There was no evidence to indict him… except that a terrible
and unusual crime had been committed at the Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry, and going by previous occasions the odds were
five to one that the current Defence Professor was tangled up in it
somehow. To this must be added the fact that nobody in the D.M.L.E. even
knew who the Defence Professor was, and that the man had literally
sneezed at all attempts to uncover his true identity. Why, no, they
hadn’t released ‘Quirinus Quirrell’ back to Hogwarts just yet.

Let us repeat this for emphasis:

The Defence Professor.

Was being detained.

In a cell.

The Defence Professor was staring at the watching Auror and humming.

The Defence Professor has not spoken a single word since he arrived in
this particular cell. He has only been humming.

The humming started as a simple children’s lullaby, the one that in
Muggle Britain begins, Rock-a-bye baby…

This tune was hummed, without variation, over and over, for seven
minutes, to establish the underlying pattern.

Then began the elaborations upon the theme. Phrases hummed too slow,
with long pauses in between, so that the listener’s mind helplessly
waits and waits for the next note, the next phrase. And then, when that
next phrase comes, it is so out of key, so unbelievably awfully out of
key, not just out of key for the previous phrases but sung at a pitch
which does not correspond to any key, that you would have to believe
this person had spent hours deliberately practising their humming just
to acquire such perfect anti-pitch.

It bears the same resemblance to music as the awful dead voice of a
Dementor bears to human speech.

And this horrible, horrible humming is impossible to ignore. It is
similar to a known lullaby, but it departs from that pattern
unpredictably. It sets up expectations and then violates them, never in
any constant pattern that would permit the humming to fade into the
background. The listener’s brain cannot prevent itself from expecting
the anti-musical phrases to complete, nor prevent itself from noticing
the surprises.

The only possible explanation for how this mode of humming came to exist
is that it was deliberately designed by some unspeakably cruel genius
who woke up one day, feeling bored with ordinary torture, who decided to
handicap himself and find out whether he could break someone’s sanity
just by humming at them.

The Auror has been listening to this unimaginably dreadful humming for
four hours, while being stared at by a huge, cold, lethal presence that
feels equally horrible whether he looks at it directly or lets it hover
at the corner of his vision—

The humming stopped.

There was a long wait. Time enough for false hope to rise, and be
squashed down by the memory of previous disappointments. And then, as
the interval lengthened, and lengthened, that hope rose again
unstoppably—

The humming began once more.

The Auror cracked.

From his belt, the Auror took a mirror, tapped it once, and then said,
“This is Junior Auror Arjun Altunay, I’m calling in code RJ-L20 on cell
three.”

“Code RJ-L20?” the mirror said in surprised tones. There was a sound of
pages being flipped, then, “You want to be relieved because a prisoner
is attempting psychological warfare and succeeding?”

(Amelia Bones really is quite intelligent.)

“What’d the prisoner say to you?” said the mirror.

(This question is not part of procedure RJ-L20, but unfortunately Amelia
Bones has failed to include an explicit instruction that the commanding
officer should not ask.)

“He’s—” said the Auror, and glanced back at the cell. The Defence
Professor was now leaning in back in his chair, looking quite relaxed.
“He was staring at me! And humming!”

There was a pause.

The mirror spoke again. “And you’re calling in an RJ-L20 over that?
You’re sure you’re not just trying to get out of watching him?”

(Amelia Bones is surrounded by idiots.)

“You don’t understand!” yelled Auror Altunay. “It’s really awful
humming!”

The mirror transmitted a sound of muffled laughter in the background,
sounding like it was coming from more than one person. Then speech
again. “Mr Altunay, if you don’t want to be busted to Junior Auror
Second Class, I suggest you buckle down and get back to work—”

“Strike that,” a crisp voice said, sounding slightly remote due to its
distance from the mirror.

(Which is why Amelia Bones often sits in on a coordination centre of the
D.M.L.E. while doing her Ministry-required paperwork.)

“Auror Altunay,” said the crisp voice, seeming to approach closer to the
mirror, “you will be relieved shortly. Auror Ben Gutierrez, the
procedure for RJ-L20 does not say that you ask why. It says that you
relieve the Auror who calls it in. If I find that Aurors seem to be
abusing it, I will modify the procedure to prevent its abuse—” The
mirror cut off abruptly.

The Auror turned back to look triumphantly at where the current Defence
Professor of Hogwarts was leaning back in his cushioned chair.

That man then spoke the first words that had left his lips since he
entered the cell.

“Goodbye, Mr Altunay,” said the Defence Professor.

A few minutes later, the door to the detention cell opened, and in
walked a grey-haired woman, dressed in the crimson-tinged robes of an
Auror without any sign of rank or other ornamentation, carrying a black
leather folder under her left arm. “You’re relieved,” the old woman said
abruptly.

There was a brief delay while Auror Altunay tried to explain what had
been happening. This was cut short by a nod and a stark, simple finger
pointing out the door.

“Good evening, Madam Director,” said the Defence Professor.

Amelia Bones did not acknowledge this statement, but sat down abruptly
in the vacated chair. The old witch opened the black folder and her gaze
moved down to the parchments therein. “Possible hints to the identity of
the current Hogwarts Defence Professor, as compiled by Auror Robards.”
The title parchment was turned, flipped aside. “The Defence Professor
said that he was Sorted into Slytherin. Claimed that his family was
killed by Voldemort. Said he had studied at a martial arts centre in
Muggle Asia which was destroyed by Voldemort. A request filed with the
Department of International Magical Cooperation identifies this incident
as the Oni Affair of 1969.” Another parchment was flipped aside. “It
also seems this Defence Professor gave a most stirring speech to his
students, just before last Yule, castigating the previous generation for
their disunity against the Death Eaters.” The old witch looked up from
the leather folder. “Madam Longbottom was rather taken with it, and
insisted that I read the entire thing. The argument struck me as
familiar, though I could not place it at the time. But then, of course,
I had thought you dead.”

The chief law enforcement officer of Magical Britain was now gazing
sharply at the current Defence Professor of Hogwarts, across the pane of
spell-reinforced glass separating them. The man in the cell returned the
gaze equably, without apparent alarm.

“I shall not name any names,” said the old witch. “But I shall tell a
story, and see if it sounds familiar.” Amelia Bones looked back down,
turning to the next parchment. “Born 1927, entered Hogwarts in 1938,
sorted into Slytherin, graduated 1945. Went on a graduation tour abroad
and disappeared while visiting Albania. Presumed dead until 1970, when
he returned to magical Britain just as suddenly, without any explanation
for the missing twenty-five years. He remained estranged from his family
and friends, living in isolation. In 1971, while visiting Diagon Alley,
he fended off an attempt by Bellatrix Black to kidnap the daughter of
the Minister of Magic, and used the Killing Curse to slay two of the
three Death Eaters accompanying her. Beyond this all Britain knows the
story; need I continue it?” The old witch looked up from her folder
again. “Very well. There was a trial in the Wizengamot, during which
this young man was exonerated for his use of the Killing Curse, not
least due to the efforts of his grandmother, the Lady of his House. He
was reconciled with his family, and they held a House gathering to
welcome his return. The guest of honour arrived at that gathering to
find his entire family slain by Death Eaters, even to the house elves;
and that he himself, of cadet line, was now the last remaining scion of
a Most Ancient House.”

The Defence Professor had not reacted at all to any of this, except that
his eyes had half-closed, as though in weariness.

“The young man took up his family’s seat in the Wizengamot, becoming
among the most steadfast voices against You-Know-Who. Several times he
led forces against the Death Eaters, fighting with skilful tactics and
extraordinary power. People began to speak of him as the next
Dumbledore, it was thought that he might become Minister of Magic after
the Dark Lord fell. On the third of July, 1973, he failed to appear at a
key Wizengamot vote, and was never heard from again. We assumed
You-Know-Who had killed him. It was a grave blow to all of us, and
matters went much the worse from that day on.” The old witch’s gaze was
questioning. “I mourned you myself. What happened?”

The Defence Professor’s shoulders moved lightly, a small shrug. “You
make many assumptions,” the Defence Professor said softly. “For myself,
I would believe that man died years ago. But if that man is nonetheless
alive—then it is clear he does not wish the fact announced, and has
reasons enough for silence. That man was once of some help to you, it
seems.” The Defence Professor’s lips curved in a cynical smile. “But I
am no longer surprised when gratitude is fleeting. Is there yet more
that you would demand from him?”

The old witch leaned back in her Auror’s monitoring-chair, looking
rather startled, maybe even hurt. “No—” she said after a moment. Her
fingers tapped the leather folder; nervously, you might have thought, if
you had believed that Amelia Bones could ever be nervous. “But your
House—there are not many Ancient Houses remaining—”

“It shall matter little to this country whether eight Ancient Houses
remain, or seven.”

The old witch sighed. “What does Dumbledore think of this?”

The man in the detention cell shook his head. “He does not know who I
am, and promised not to inquire.”

The old witch’s eyebrows rose. “How did he identify you to the Hogwarts
wards, then?”

A slight smile. “The Headmaster drew a circle, and told Hogwarts that he
who stood within was the Defence Professor. Speaking of which—” The tone
went lower, flatter. “I am missing my classes, Director Bones.”

“You seem to—rest, sometimes, in a peculiar manner. This has also been
reported. And you seem to be resting more and more frequently, as time
goes on.” The old witch’s fingers tapped the leather folder again. “I
cannot recall reading of such a symptom, but when one hears of such a
thing, one imagines… Dark Wizards fought, and terrible curses received…”

The Defence Professor remained expressionless.

“Do you require a healer’s help?” said Amelia Bones. Her own mask had
slipped, clearly showing the pain in her eyes. “Is there anything at all
that can be done for you?”

“I agreed to teach Defence at Hogwarts,” the man in the cell said
flatly. “Draw your own conclusions, Madam. And I am missing my classes,
of which there are not many left. I would return to Hogwarts, now.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When Hermione woke the third time (though it felt like she’d only closed
her eyes for a moment) the Sun was even lower in the sky, almost fully
set. She felt a little more alive and, strangely, even more exhausted.
This time it was Professor Flitwick who was standing next to her bed and
shaking her shoulder, a tray of steaming food floating next to him. For
some reason she’d thought Harry Potter ought to be leaning over her
bedside, but he wasn’t there. Had she dreamed that? She couldn’t
remember dreaming.

It developed (according to Professor Flitwick) that Hermione had missed
dinner in the Great Hall, and was being woken to eat. And then she could
go back to the Ravenclaw dorm, and her own bed, to sleep the rest of the
night.

She ate in silence. There was a part of her that wanted to ask Professor
Flitwick whether he thought she’d been Memory-Charmed or she’d tried to
kill Draco Malfoy of her own will—

—like she remembered doing—

—but most of her was afraid to find out. Afraid to find out was a
warning sign, according to Harry Potter and his books; but her mind felt
tired, bruised, and she couldn’t muster the strength to override it.

When she and Professor Flitwick left the infirmary they found Harry
Potter sitting cross-legged outside the door, quietly reading a
psychology textbook.

“I’ll take her from here,” said the Boy-Who-Lived. “Professor McGonagall
said it would be all right.”

Professor Flitwick seemed to accept this, and departed after a stern
look at both of them. She couldn’t imagine what the stern look was
supposed to say, unless it was don’t try to kill any more students.

The footsteps of Professor Flitwick faded, and the two of them stood
alone outside the doors of the infirmary.

She looked at the green eyes of the Boy-Who-Lived, the unruly hair that
didn’t quite obscure the scar on his forehead; she looked upon the face
of the boy who’d given all his money to save her without a second
thought. There were feelings inside her—guilt, shame, embarrassment,
other things as well—but no words. There was nothing she knew how to
say.

“So,” Harry said abruptly, “I did a quick skim through my psychology
books to see what they said about post-traumatic stress disorder. The
old books said you should talk about the experience immediately
afterwards with a counsellor. The newer research says that when they
actually ran experiments, it turned out that talking about it
immediately afterwards made it worse. Apparently what you really ought
to do is run with your mind’s natural impulse to repress the memories
and just not think about it for a while.”

It was so normal for the way she and Harry usually talked that she felt
a sudden burning in her throat.

We don’t have to talk about it. That was what Harry had just said, more
or less. It felt like cheating, maybe even like a lie. Nothing was
normal. Everything wrong was still horribly wrong, everything left
unsaid still needed to be said…

“Okay,” said Hermione, because there wasn’t anything else to say,
anything else at all.

“I’m sorry I wasn’t waiting when you woke up,” Harry said, as they
started to walk. “Madam Pomfrey wouldn’t let me in, so I just stayed out
here.” He gave a small, sad-looking shrug. “I suppose I should be out
there trying to run damage control on public relations, but… honestly
I’ve never been good at that, I just end up speaking sharply at people.”

“How bad is it?” She thought her voice should have come out in a
whisper, a croak, but it didn’t.

“Well—” Harry said with obvious hesitation. “The thing you’ve got to
understand, Hermione, is that you had a lot of defenders at breakfast
time today, but everyone on your side was… making stuff up. Draco tried
to kill you first, things like that. It was Granger versus Malfoy,
that’s how people saw it, like a see-saw where pushing his side down
meant pushing your side up. I told them you were probably both innocent,
that you’d both been Memory-Charmed. They didn’t listen, both sides
treated me like a traitor trying to play the middle. And then people
heard that Draco had testified under Veritaserum that he’d been trying
to help you before the battle—stop making that expression, Hermione, you
didn’t actually do anything to him. Anyway, all people understood was
that the pro-Malfoy faction had been right and the pro-Granger faction
had been wrong.” Harry gave a small sigh. “I told them that when the
truth came out later they’d be embarrassed…”

“How bad is it?” she said again. This time her voice did come out
weaker.

“Remember Asch’s conformity experiment?” Harry said, turning his head to
give her a serious look.

Her mind was slow to remember for a few seconds, which frightened her,
but then the reference came back. In 1951, Solomon Asch had taken some
experimental subjects, and each one had been put among a row of other
people who looked like them, seeming like other experimental subjects,
but actually confederates of the experimenter. They’d shown a reference
line on a screen, labelled X, next to three other lines, labelled A, B,
and C. The experimenter had asked which line X was the same length as.
The correct answer had obviously been C. The other ‘subjects’, the
confederates, had one after another said that X was the same length as
B. The real subject had been put second-to-last in the order, so as not
to arouse suspicion by being last. The test had been to see whether the
real subject would ‘conform’ to the standard wrong answer of B, or voice
the obviously correct answer of C.

75% of the subjects had ‘conformed’ at least once. A third of the
subjects had conformed more than half the time. Some had reported
afterwards actually believing that X was the same length as B. And that
had been in a case where the subjects hadn’t known any of the
confederates. If you put people around others who belonged to the same
group as them, like someone in a wheelchair next to other people in a
wheelchair, the conformity effect got even stronger…

Hermione had a sickening feeling where this was going. “I remember,” she
whispered.

“I gave the Chaos Legion anti-conformity training, you know. I had each
Legionnaire stand in the middle and say ‘Twice two is four!’ or ‘Grass
is green!’ while everyone else in the Chaos Legion called them idiots or
sneered at them—Allen Flint did really good sneers—or even just gave
them blank looks and then walked away. The thing you’ve got to remember
is, only the Chaos Legion has ever practised anything like that. Nobody
else in Hogwarts even knows what conformity is.”

“Harry!” Her voice was wobbling. “How bad is it?”

Harry gave another sad-looking shrug. “Everyone in the second year and
above, since they don’t know you. Everyone in Dragon Army. All of
Slytherin, of course. And, well, most of the rest of magical Britain
too, I think. Remember, Lucius Malfoy controls the Daily Prophet.”

“Everyone?” she whispered. Her limbs had started to feel cold, like
she’d just got out of an unheated swimming pool.

“What people really believe doesn’t feel like a belief, it feels like
the way the world is. You and I are standing in a private little bubble
of the universe where Hermione Granger got Memory-Charmed. Everyone else
is living in the world where Hermione Granger tried to murder Draco
Malfoy. If Ernie Macmillan—”

Her breath caught in her throat. Captain Macmillan—

“—thinks he’s ethically prohibited from being your friend now, well,
he’s trying to do the right thing as he understands it, in the world he
thinks he lives in.” Harry’s eyes were very serious. “Hermione, you’ve
told me a lot of times that I look down too much on other people. But if
I expected too much of them—if I expected people to get things right—I
really would hate them, then. Idealism aside, Hogwarts students don’t
actually know enough cognitive science to take responsibility for how
their own minds work. It’s not their fault they’re crazy.” Harry’s voice
was strangely gentle, almost like an adult’s. “I know it’s going to be
harder on you than it would be on me. But remember, eventually the real
culprit gets nailed. The truth comes out, everyone who was confidently
wrong gets embarrassed.”

“And if the real culprit doesn’t get caught?” she said in a trembling
voice.

…or if it turns out to be me after all?

“Then you can leave Hogwarts and go to the Salem Witches’ Institute in
America.”

“Leave Hogwarts?” She’d never even thought of that possibility except as
an ultimate punishment.

“I… Hermione, I think you might want to do that anyway. Hogwarts isn’t a
castle, it’s insanity with walls. You have got other options.”

“I’ll…” she stammered. “I’ll have… to think about it…”

Harry nodded. “At least nobody’s going to try hexing you, not after what
the Headmaster said at dinner tonight. Oh, and Ron Weasley came up to
me, looking very serious, and told me that if I saw you first, I should
tell you that he’s sorry for having thought badly of you, and he’ll
never speak ill of you again.”

“Ron believes I’m innocent?” said Hermione.

“Well… he doesn’t think you’re innocent, per se…”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The whole Ravenclaw dorm went silent as the two of them walked in.

Staring at them.

Staring at her.

(She’d had nightmares like this.)

And then, one by one, people looked away from her.

Penelope Clearwater, the 5th-year prefect in charge of first-years,
looked away slowly and deliberately, turning her head to face in another
direction.

Su Li and Lisa Turpin and Michael Corner, all sitting at a table
together, all of whom she’d helped with their homework at one time or
another, all looked away, their faces suddenly nervous, the moment she
tried to catch their eyes.

A third-year witch named Latisha Randle, whom SPHEW had twice saved from
Slytherin bullies, quickly bent back over her desk and started doing
homework again.

Mandy Brocklehurst looked away from her.

If Hermione didn’t burst into tears, then, it was only because she’d
expected it, had played it out in her mind over and over again. At least
people weren’t screaming at her or shoving her or hexing her. They were
just looking away—

Hermione walked very straight up to the staircase that led toward the
first-year girl’s dorms. (She didn’t see Padma Patil or Anthony
Goldstein looking at her, those two lone heads turning to track her as
she left.) From behind her, she heard Harry Potter saying in a very calm
tone, “Now eventually the truth’s going to come out, all of you. So if
you’re all that confident she’s guilty, can I ask you all to sign this
paper right here, saying that if she later turns out to be innocent, she
gets to say ‘I told you so’ and then hold it over you for the rest of
your lives? Step on up, one and all, don’t be cowards, if you really
believe you shouldn’t be afraid to bet—”

She was halfway up the stairs when she realized that there would be
other girls inside her dorm, too.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The stars hadn’t quite come out yet, only one or two of the brightest
ones visible through the reddish-purple haze of the horizon, though the
sun had fully sunk.

Hermione’s hands dug into the harsh stone of the parapet guarding the
small balcony, where she’d ducked out of the stairwell after realizing
that—

—she couldn’t just go back to bed—

—the words echoed in her mind like ‘You can’t go home again’ ought to
sound.

She stared out at the empty grounds, the fading sunset, the sprouting
grass so far below.

Tired, she was tired, she couldn’t think now, she needed to sleep.
Professor Flitwick had told her that she needed to sleep, and there’d
been yet another potion with her dinner. Maybe that was how wizarding
society treated horrible traumas to innocent young girls, just made them
sleep a lot afterwards.

She should go to her room and sleep, but she was afraid to go somewhere
where other people were. Afraid of how they might look at her, or look
away.

Fragments of thought chased themselves around a mind too exhausted to
finish or connect them, as the night fully set in.

Why—

Why did all this happen—

Everything was fine a week ago—

Why—

From behind her came the creaky sound of an opening door.

She turned her head and looked.

Professor Quirrell was leaning against the doorway she’d walked through,
silhouetted like a cardboard cut-out by the light of the Hogwarts
torches lit behind him, in the open door. She couldn’t see his
expression, though the doorway behind him was bright; his eyes, his
face, everything she could see from here lay within night’s shadow.

The Defence Professor of Hogwarts, number one on the list of people who
might’ve done this. She hadn’t even realized she had a suspect list
until that moment.

The man stood within that doorway, saying nothing; and she couldn’t see
his eyes. What was he even doing there in the first place—

“Are you here to kill me?” said Hermione Granger.

Professor Quirrell’s head tilted at that.

Then the Defence Professor started toward her, the dark silhouette
raising one hand slowly and deliberately, as though to push her off the
Ravenclaw tower—

“Stupefy!”

The burst of adrenaline overrode everything, she drew her wand without
thinking, her lips formed the word of their own accord, the stun bolt
leapt out of her wand and—

—slowed to a stop in front of Professor Quirrell’s raised hand, rippling
in mid-air like it was still trying to fly and making a slight hissing
sound.

The red glow illuminated Professor Quirrell’s face for the first time,
showing a strange fond smile.

“Better,” said Professor Quirrell. “Miss Granger, you are still a
student in my Defence class. As such, if you consider me a threat, I do
not expect you to just look at me sadly and ask if I am there to kill
you. Minus two Quirrell points.”

She was entirely unable to form words.

The Defence Professor flicked his forefinger casually at the suspended
stun bolt, sending the hex shooting back over her head, far into the
night, so that they stood again in darkness. Then Professor Quirrell
walked out of the doorway, which swung shut behind him; and a soft white
light sprung up around the two of them, so that she could see his face
once more, still with that strange fond smile.

“What are you—what are you doing here?”

A few more steps took Professor Quirrell to a higher part of the
balcony’s ramparts, where he put his elbows down on the stone, and
leaned over heavily, looking up into the night.

“I came here straight upon being released by the Aurors, the moment I
finished reporting to the Headmaster,” said Professor Quirrell in a
quiet voice, “because I am your teacher, and you are my student, and I
am responsible for you.”

Hermione understood, then; remembering what Professor Quirrell had said
to Harry in the second Defence lesson of the year, about controlling his
anger. She felt the flush of shame all the way down her chest. It took a
moment after that for knowledge to override mortification, for her to
force out the words—

“I—” said Hermione. “Harry thinks—that I didn’t—lose my temper, I mean—”

“So I heard,” said Professor Quirrell in rather dry tones. He shook his
head, as though at the stars themselves. “The boy is fortunate that I
have crossed the line from annoyance at his self-destructiveness, into
sheer curiosity as to what he will do next. But I agree with Mr Potter’s
assessment of the facts. This crime was well-planned to evade detection
both by the wards of Hogwarts and the Headmaster’s timely eye.
Naturally, in such a thoughtful murder, some innocent would be placed to
take the blame.” A brief, wry smile crossed the Defence Professor’s
lips, though he wasn’t looking at her. “As for the notion that you did
it yourself—I consider myself a talented teacher, but even I could not
teach such murderous intent to a student as obstinate and untalented as
Hermione Granger.”

The part of her brain that said What? in indignation wasn’t anywhere
near loud enough to reach her lips.

“No…” said Professor Quirrell. “That is not why I am here. You have made
no effort to hide your dislike for me, Miss Granger. I thank you for
that lack of pretence, for I much prefer true hate to false love. But
you are still my student, and I have a word to say to you, if you will
hear it.”

Hermione looked at him, still fighting down the after-effects of the
adrenaline from before. The Defence Professor seemed to be just staring
up at the dark sky, in which the stars were becoming visible.

“I was going to be a hero, once,” said Professor Quirrell, still looking
upward. “Can you believe that, Miss Granger?”

“No.”

“Thank you again, Miss Granger. It is true nonetheless. Long ago, long
before your time or Harry Potter’s, there was a man who was hailed as a
saviour. The destined scion, such a one as anyone would recognize from
tales, wielding justice and vengeance like twin wands against his
dreadful nemesis.” Professor Quirrell gave a soft, bitter laugh, looking
up at the night sky. “Do you know, Miss Granger, at that time I thought
myself already cynical, and yet… well.”

The silence stretched, in the cold and the night.

“In all honesty,” said Professor Quirrell, looking up at the stars, “I
still don’t understand it. They should have known that their lives
depended on that man’s success. And yet it was as if they tried to do
everything they could to make his life unpleasant. To throw every
possible obstacle into his way. I was not naive, Miss Granger, I did not
expect the power-holders to align themselves with me so quickly—not
without something in it for themselves. But their power, too, was
threatened; and so I was shocked how they seemed content to step back,
and leave to that man all burdens of responsibility. They sneered at his
performance, remarking among themselves how they would do better in his
place, though they did not condescend to step forward.” Professor
Quirrell shook his head as though in bemusement. “And it was the
strangest thing—the Dark Wizard, that man’s dread nemesis—why, those who
served him leapt eagerly to their tasks. The Dark Wizard grew crueller
toward his followers, and they followed him all the more. Men fought for
the chance to serve him, even as those whose lives depended on that
other man made free to render his life difficult… I could not understand
it, Miss Granger.” Professor Quirrell’s face was in shadow, as he looked
upward. “Perhaps, by taking on himself the curse of action, that man
removed it from all others? Was that why they felt free to hinder his
battle against the Dark Wizard who would have enslaved them all?
Believing men would act in their own interest was not cynicism, it
turned out, but sheerest optimism; in reality men do not meet so high a
standard. And so in time that one realized he might do better fighting
the Dark Wizard alone, than with such followers at his back.”

“So—” Hermione’s voice sounded strange in the night. “You left your
friends behind where they’d be safe, and tried to attack the Dark Wizard
all by yourself?”

“Why, no,” said Professor Quirrell. “I stopped trying to be a hero, and
went off to do something else I found more pleasant.”

“What?” said Hermione without thinking at all. “That’s horrible!”

The Defence Professor turned his head down from the sky to regard her;
and she saw, in the light of the doorway, that he was smiling—or at
least half his face was smiling. “Are you going to tell me,
Miss Granger, that I am an awful person? Well, perhaps I am. But then
are people who never even try to be heroes still worse? If I had never
done anything at all, like them, would you have thought better of me?”

Hermione opened her mouth and then found that, once again, she didn’t
have anything to say. It wasn’t right to walk away from being a hero,
you couldn’t just do that, but she didn’t want to say that everyone who
wasn’t a hero was nothing, that was Quirrell-thinking…

The smile, or half-smile, had disappeared. “You were foolish,” the
Defence Professor said quietly, “to expect any lasting gratitude from
those you tried to protect, once you named yourself a heroine. Just as
you expected that man to go on being a hero, and called him horrible for
stopping, when a thousand others never lifted a finger. It was only
expected that you should fight bullies. It was a tax you owed, and they
accepted it like princes, with a sneer for the lateness of your payment.
And you have already witnessed, I wager, that their fondness vanished
like dust in the wind once it was no longer in their interest to
associate with you…”

The Defence Professor slowly straightened up from the balcony, standing
almost erect, turning to regard her fully.

“But you don’t have to be a hero, Miss Granger,” said Professor
Quirrell. “You can stop anytime you please.”

That idea…

… had occurred to her before, several times over the last two days.

People become who they are meant to be, by doing what is right,
Headmaster Dumbledore had told her. The trouble was that there seemed to
be two different right things to do. There was the part of her which
said that right was to go on being a heroine, and stay at Hogwarts, she
didn’t know what was going on but a heroine wouldn’t just run away.

And there was also the voice of common sense saying that young children
shouldn’t ever stay around danger, that was what adults were for; the
voice of every school poster that said not to take sweets from
strangers. That was also right.

Hermione Granger stood there on that balcony, looking at Professor
Quirrell silhouetted by the emerging stars, and she didn’t understand;
she didn’t understand how the Defence Professor could be gazing at her
with his face showing concern; she didn’t understand the notes of pain
in the Defence Professor’s voice that caught at her; she didn’t
understand why she was being told all this.

“You don’t even like me, Professor,” said Hermione.

A small smile flickered on Professor Quirrell’s face. “I suppose I could
go on about how I am angered that this affair has taken up my valuable
time and disrupted my Defence classes. But mostly, Miss Granger, you are
my student, and whatever other professions I may have once held, I think
I have been a good teacher at Hogwarts, have I not?” Suddenly Professor
Quirrell’s eyes seemed very tired. “As your teacher, then, I am advising
you that you have other career options. I should not like to see anyone
else going down my path.”

Hermione swallowed. It was a side of Professor Quirrell she’d never seen
or imagined, and it was eating away at her preconceptions.

Professor Quirrell watched her for a moment, and then looked away from
her again, back up at the stars. When he spoke this time his voice was
quieter. “Someone here is targeting you, Miss Granger, and I cannot ward
you as I warded Mr Malfoy. The Headmaster has prevented it, for what he
claims to be good reasons. It is easy to become fond of Hogwarts, I
know, for I am fond of it as well. But in France they take a different
view of the Ancient Houses than in Britain; and Beauxbatons would not
mistreat you, I think. Whatever else you imagine of me, I swear that if
you asked me to see you safely to Beauxbatons, I would do all in my
power to convey you there.”

“I can’t just—” Hermione said.

“But you can, Miss Granger.” Now the pale blue eyes watched her
intently. “Whatever you wish to make of your life, you cannot attain it
at Hogwarts, not any more. This place is ruined for you now, even
leaving aside all other threats. Simply ask Harry Potter to command you
to go to Beauxbatons and live out your life in peace. If you stay here,
he is your master in the eyes of Britain and its laws!”

She hadn’t even been thinking about that, it paled so much in comparison
to being eaten by Dementors; it had been important to her before, but
now it all seemed childish, unimportant, pointless, so why were her eyes
burning?

“And if that fails to move you, Miss Granger, consider also that
Mr Potter has, just today at lunchtime, threatened Lucius Malfoy, Albus
Dumbledore, and the entire Wizengamot because he cannot think sensibly
when something threatens to take you from him. Are you not frightened of
what he will do next?”

It made sense. Terrible sense. Dreadful awful sense.

It made too much sense—

She couldn’t have described it in words, what triggered the realization,
unless it was the sheer pressure that the Defence Professor was exerting
on her.

That if the Defence Professor was behind this whole thing—then Professor
Quirrell had done it all just to get her out of the way of his plans for
Harry.

Without any conscious decision, she shifted her weight to the other
foot, her body moving away from the Defence Professor—

“So you think I am the one responsible?” said Professor Quirrell. His
voice sounded a little sad as he said it, and her own heart almost
stopped from hearing it. “I suppose I cannot blame you. I am the Defence
Professor of Hogwarts, after all. But Miss Granger, even assuming that I
am your enemy, common sense should still tell you to get away from me
very quickly. You cannot use the Killing Curse, so the correct tactic is
to Apparate away. I do not mind being the villain of your imagination if
it makes matters clearer. Leave Hogwarts, and leave me to those who can
handle me. I will arrange for the transportation to be through some
family of good repute, and Mr Potter will know to blame me if you do not
arrive safely.”

“I—” She was feeling cold, the night air chilling her skin, or maybe
being chilled by it. “I’ve got to think about it—”

Professor Quirrell shook his head. “No, Miss Granger. Your departure
will take time for me to arrange, and I have less time left than you may
think. This decision may be painful for you, but it should not be
ambiguous; much weighs in the balance of these scales, but not evenly. I
must know tonight whether you intend to go.”

And if not—

Was the Defence Professor warning her deliberately? That if she didn’t
run, he would strike again?

Why would it matter so much, what did Professor Quirrell want to do with
Harry?

Hermione Granger, I shall be less subtle than is usual for a mysterious
old wizard, and tell you outright that you cannot imagine how badly
things could go if the events surrounding Harry Potter turn to ill.

The most powerful wizard in the world had told her that, when he was
talking about how important it was that she not stop being Harry’s
friend.

Hermione swallowed, she swayed a little where she stood, on the stone
balcony of a magical castle. Suddenly the whole deadly absurdity of the
situation seemed to rise up and grab her by the throat, that
twelve-year-old girls shouldn’t be in danger, shouldn’t be thinking
about such things, that Mum would want her to run away and her father
would have a heart attack if he even knew she was being faced with the
question.

And she knew, then, as Harry and Dumbledore had both tried to warn her,
that everything she’d ever thought about being a heroine had been
mistaken. That there wasn’t really any such thing as heroes, outside of
stories. There was just horrible danger, and being arrested by Aurors
and put in cells next to Dementors, pain and fear and—

“Miss Granger?” said the Defence Professor.

She said nothing. All the words were blocked in her throat.

“I need a decision, Miss Granger.”

She kept her jaw locked, didn’t let any words come out.

Finally the Defence Professor sighed. Slowly the white light failed, and
slowly the door behind him swung open, so that he was once again a black
silhouette against the opening. “Good night, Miss Granger,” he said, and
turned his back to her, and walked away into Hogwarts.

It took a while for her breathing to slow down again. Whatever had
happened here tonight, it didn’t feel anything like victory. She’d
fought so hard just to stop herself from saying Yes in the face of the
Defence Professor’s pressure, and now she didn’t even know if she’d done
the right thing.

When she walked back into the light herself (after exhaustion had
overtaken everything and sleep was once more a possibility), she thought
she heard it as she was within the doorway, from behind her and above
her, a distant cawing cry.

But it wasn’t meant for her, she knew, so she started climbing up the
stairs toward her dorm.

The other girls were probably asleep by now, and wouldn’t look at her,
or look away—

She felt the tears start, and this time she didn’t stop them.

85. Taboo Trade-offs, Aftermath, Part III:Distance

SLOW and hard, the long stairway that led to the peak of Ravenclaw. From
the inside, the stairway seemed like a straight upward slope, though
from the outside you could see that it logically had to be a spiral. You
could only get to the top of the Ravenclaw tower by making that long
climb without shortcuts, stone step by stone step; passing beneath
Harry’s shoes, pushed down by his wearying legs.

Harry had seen Hermione safely off to bed.

He had lingered in the Ravenclaw common room long enough to collect a
few signatures that might be useful to Hermione later. Not many students
had signed; wizards hadn’t been trained to think in the
put-up-or-shut-up,
stick-your-neck-out-and-make-a-prediction-or-stop-pretending-to-believe-in-your-theory
rules of Muggle science. Most of them hadn’t seen anything incongruent
about being too nervous to sign an agreement saying that Hermione got to
hold it over them for the rest of their lives if they were wrong, while
acting outwardly confident that she was guilty. But just having demanded
the signatures would make the point after the truth came out, if anyone
ever again suspected Hermione of anything Dark. She wouldn’t have to go
through this twice, at least.

After that Harry had left the common room quickly, because all the
kindly forgiving sentiments he’d reasoned out were getting harder and
harder to remember. Sometimes Harry thought the deepest split in his
personality wasn’t anything to do with his dark side; rather it was the
divide between the altruistic and forgiving Abstract Reasoning Harry,
versus the frustrated and angry Harry In The Moment.

The circular platform at the top of the Ravenclaw tower wasn’t the
tallest place in Hogwarts, but the Ravenclaw tower jutted out from the
main body of the castle, so you couldn’t see down into the top platform
from the Astronomy tower. A quiet place to think, if you had an awful
lot to think about. A place where few other students ever came—there
were easier niches of privacy, if privacy was all you wanted.

The night-lit torches of Hogwarts were far below. The platform itself
offered few obstructions; the stairs emerged from an uncovered gap in
the floor, rather than an upright door. From this place, then, the stars
were as visible as they ever were on Earth.

The boy lay down in the centre of the platform, heedless of his robes
that might be dirtied, dropping his head to rest upon the rock-tiled
floor; so that, except for a few half-seen crenellations of stone at
vision’s edge, and a sliver of crescent moon, reality became starlight.

The pinpoints of light in dark velvet twinkled, wavering and returning,
a different kind of beauty from their steady brilliance in the Silent
Night.

Harry gazed out abstractly, his mind on other things.

This day your war against Voldemort has begun…

Dumbledore had said that, after the Incident with Rescuing Bellatrix
from Azkaban. That had been a false alarm, but the phrase expressed the
sentiment well.

Two nights ago his war had begun, and Harry didn’t know with who.

Dumbledore thought it was Lord Voldemort, returned from the dead, making
his first move against the boy who had defeated him last time.

Professor Quirrell had put detection wards on Draco, fearing that
Hogwarts’s mad Headmaster would try to frame Harry for the death of
Lucius’s son.

Or Professor Quirrell had set up the entire thing, and that was how he’d
known where to find Draco. Severus Snape thought the Hogwarts Defence
Professor was an obvious suspect, even the obvious suspect.

And Severus Snape himself might or might not be even remotely
trustworthy.

Someone had declared war against Harry, their first strike had been
meant to take out Draco and Hermione both, and it was only by the barest
of margins that Harry had saved Hermione.

You couldn’t call it victory. Draco had been removed from Hogwarts, and
if that wasn’t death, it wasn’t clear how it could be undone, or what
shape Draco might be in when he got back. The country of magical Britain
now thought Hermione an attempted-murderer, which might or might not
make her decide to do the sane thing and leave. Harry had sacrificed his
entire fortune to undo his loss, and that card could only be played
once.

Some unknown power had struck at him, and if that blow had been
partially deflected, it had still hit really hard.

At least his dark side hadn’t asked anything of him in exchange for
saving Hermione. Maybe because his dark side wasn’t an imaginary voice
like Hufflepuff; Harry might imagine his Hufflepuff part as wanting
different things from himself, but his dark side wasn’t like that. His
“dark side”, so far as Harry could tell, was a different way that Harry
sometimes was. Right now, Harry wasn’t angry; and trying to ask what
“dark Harry” wanted was a phone ringing unanswered. The thought even
seemed a little strange; could you owe something to a different way you
sometimes were?

Harry stared up at the random stars, the scattered twinkling lights that
human brains couldn’t help but pattern-match into imaginary
constellations.

And then there was that promise Harry had sworn.

Draco to help Harry reform Slytherin House. And Harry to take as an
enemy whomever Harry believed, in his best judgement as a rationalist,
to have killed Narcissa Malfoy. If Narcissa had never dirtied her own
hands, if indeed she’d been burned alive, if the killer hadn’t been
tricked—those were all the conditions Harry could remember making. He
probably should’ve written it down, or better yet, never made a promise
requiring that many caveats in the first place.

There were plausible outs, for the sort of person who’d let themselves
rationalize an out. Dumbledore hadn’t actually confessed. He hadn’t come
right out and said he’d done it. There were plausible reasons for an
actually-guilty Dumbledore to behave that way. But it was also what
you’d expect to see, if someone else had burned Narcissa, and Dumbledore
had taken credit.

Harry shook his head, flattening one side of his hair and then another
against the stone-tiled floor. There was still a final out, Draco could
still release him from the oath at any time. He could, at least,
describe the situation to Draco, and talk about options with him, when
they met again. It didn’t seem like a very likely prospect for
release—but the idea of talking something over honestly was enough to
satisfy the part of himself that demanded adherence to oaths. Even if it
only meant delaying, it was better than taking a good man as an enemy.

But is Dumbledore a good man? asked the voice of Hufflepuff. If
Dumbledore burned someone alive—wasn’t the whole point that good people
may kill, but never kill with suffering?

Maybe he killed her instantly, said Slytherin, and then lied to Lucius
about the burning-alive part. But… if there was any possibility of the
Death Eaters magically verifying how Narcissa died… and if being caught
in a lie would’ve endangered Light-side families…

Be careful what we cleverly rationalize, warned Gryffindor.

You have to expect reputational effects on how other people treat you,
said Hufflepuff. If you decide there’s sufficient reason to burn a woman
alive, one of the predictable side effects is that good people decide
you’ve crossed the line and have to be stopped. Dumbledore should’ve
expected that. He’s got no right to complain.

Or maybe he expects us to be smarter, said Slytherin. Now that we know
this much of the truth—no matter the exact details of the full story—can
we really believe that Dumbledore is a terrible, terrible person who
ought to be our enemy? In the middle of a horrible bloody war,
Dumbledore set one enemy civilian on fire? That’s only bad by the
standards of comic books, not by any sort of realistic historical
standard.

Harry stared up at the night sky, remembering history.

In real life, in real wars…

During World War II, there had been a project to sabotage the Nazi
nuclear weapons programme. Years earlier, Leo Szilard, the first person
to realize the possibility of a fission chain reaction, had convinced
Fermi not to publish the discovery that purified graphite was a cheap
and effective neutron moderator. Fermi had wanted to publish, for the
sake of the great international project of science, which was above
nationalism. But Szilard had persuaded Rabi, and Fermi had abided by the
majority vote of their tiny three-person conspiracy. And so, years
later, the only neutron moderator the Nazis had known about was
deuterium.

The only deuterium source under Nazi control had been a captured
facility in occupied Norway, which had been knocked out by bombs and
sabotage, causing a total of twenty-four civilian deaths.

The Nazis had tried to ship the deuterium already refined to Germany,
aboard a civilian Norwegian ferry, the SS Hydro.

Knut Haukelid and his assistants had been discovered by the night
watchman of the civilian ferry while they were sneaking on board to
sabotage it. Haukelid had told the watchman that they were escaping the
Gestapo, and the watchman had let them go. Haukelid had considered
warning the night watchman, but that would have endangered the mission,
so Haukelid had only shaken his hand. And the civilian ship had sunk in
the deepest part of the lake, with eight dead Germans, seven dead crew,
and three dead civilian bystanders. Some of the Norwegian rescuers of
the ship had thought the German soldiers present should be left to
drown, but this view had not prevailed, and the German survivors had
been rescued. And that had been the end of the Nazi nuclear weapons
programme.

Which was to say that Knut Haukelid had killed innocent people. One of
whom, the night watchman of the ship, had been a good person. Someone
who’d gone out of his way to help Haukelid, at risk to himself; from the
kindness of his heart, for the highest moral reasons; and been sent to
drown in turn. Afterwards, in the cold light of history, it had looked
like the Nazis had never been close to getting nuclear weapons after
all.

And Harry had never read anything suggesting that Haukelid had acted
wrongly.

That was war in real life. In terms of total damage and who’d been hit,
what Haukelid had done was considerably worse than what Dumbledore might
have done to Narcissa Malfoy, or what Dumbledore had possibly done to
leak the prophecy to Lord Voldemort to get him to attack Harry’s
parents.

If Haukelid had been a comic-book superhero, he’d have somehow rescued
all the civilians from the ferry, he would’ve attacked the German
soldiers directly…

…rather than let a single innocent person die…

…but Knut Haukelid hadn’t been a superhero.

And neither had Albus Dumbledore.

Harry closed his eyes, swallowing hard a few times against the sudden
choking sensation. It was abruptly very clear that while Harry was going
around trying to live the ideals of the Enlightenment, Dumbledore was
the one who’d actually fought in a war. Non-violent ideals were cheap to
hold if you were a scientist, living inside the Protego bubble cast by
the police officers and soldiers whose actions you had the luxury to
question. Albus Dumbledore seemed to have started out with ideals at
least as strong as Harry’s own, if not stronger; and Dumbledore hadn’t
made it through his war without killing enemies and sacrificing friends.

Are you so much better than Haukelid and Dumbledore, Harry Potter, that
you’ll be able to fight without a single casualty? Even in the world of
comic books, the only reason a superhero like Batman even looks
successful is that the comic-book readers only notice when Important
Named Characters die, not when the Joker shoots some random nameless
bystander to show off his villainy. Batman is a murderer no less than
the Joker, for all the lives the Joker took that Batman could’ve saved
by killing him. That’s what the man named Alastor was trying to tell
Dumbledore, and afterwards Dumbledore regretted having taken so long to
change his mind. Are you really going to try to follow the path of the
superhero, and never sacrifice a single piece or kill a single enemy?

Fatigued, Harry turned his attention away from the dilemma for a moment,
opened his eyes again to regard the hemisphere of night, which required
no decisions from him.

Near the edge of his vision, the pale white crescent of the Moon, the
light from which had left one-and-a-quarter seconds ago, around 375,000
kilometres of distance in Earth’s space of simultaneity.

Above and to the side, Polaris, the North Star; the first star Harry had
learned to identify in the sky, by following the edge of the Big Dipper.
That was actually a five-star system with a brilliant central
supergiant, 434 light-years from Earth. It was the first ‘star’ whose
name Harry had ever learned from his father, so long ago that he
couldn’t have guessed how old he’d been.

The dim fog that was the Milky Way, so many billions of distant stars
that they became an indistinct river, the plane of a galaxy that
stretched 100,000 light-years across. If Harry had experienced any sense
of wonder when he’d first been told that, he’d been too young for him to
remember now that first time, across a few years’ distance.

In the centre of the constellation Andromeda, the star Andromeda, which
was really the Andromeda Galaxy. The nearest galaxy to the Milky Way,
2.4 million light-years away, containing an estimated trillion stars.

Numbers like those made ‘infinity’ pale by comparison, because
‘infinity’ was just featureless and blank. Thinking that the stars were
‘infinitely’ distant was a lot less scary than trying to work out what
2.4 million light-years amounted to in metres. 2.4 million light-years,
times 31 million seconds in a year, times a photon moving at 300,000,000
metres per second…

It was strange to think that such distances might not be unreachably far
away. Magic was loose in the universe, things like Time-Turners and
broomsticks. Had any wizard ever tried to measure the speed of a
portkey, or a phœnix?

And the human understanding of magic couldn’t possibly be anywhere near
the underlying laws. What would you be able to do with magic if you
really understood it?

A year ago, Dad had gone to the Australian National University in
Canberra for a conference where he’d been an invited speaker, and he’d
taken Mum and Harry along. And they’d all visited the National Museum of
Australia, because, it had turned out, there was basically nothing else
to do in Canberra. The glass display cases had shown rock-throwers
crafted by the Australian aborigines—like giant wooden shoehorns, they’d
looked, but smoothed and carved and ornamented with painstaking care. In
the 40,000 years since anatomically modern humans had migrated to
Australia from Asia, nobody had invented the bow-and-arrow. It really
made you appreciate how non-obvious was the idea of Progress. Why would
you even think of Invention as something important, if all your
history’s heroic tales were of great warriors and defenders instead of
Thomas Edison? How could anyone have suspected, while carving a
rock-thrower with painstaking care, that some day human beings would
invent rocket ships and nuclear energy?

Could you have looked up into the sky, at the brilliant light of the
Sun, and deduced that the universe contained greater sources of power
than mere fire? Would you have realized that if the fundamental physical
laws permitted it, some day humans would tap the same energies as the
Sun? Even if nothing you could imagine doing with rock-throwers or woven
pouches—no pattern of running across the savannah and nothing you could
obtain by hunting animals—would accomplish that even in imagination?

It wasn’t like modern-day Muggles had got anywhere near the limits of
what Muggle physics said was possible. And yet like hunter-gatherers
conceptually bound to their rock-throwers, most Muggles lived in a world
defined by the limits of what you could do with cars and telephones.
Even though Muggle physics explicitly permitted possibilities like
molecular nanotechnology or the Penrose process for extracting energy
from black holes, most people filed that away in the same section of
their brain that stored fairy tales and history books, well away from
their personal realities: Long ago and far away, ever so long ago. No
surprise, then, that the wizarding world lived in a conceptual universe
bounded—not by fundamental laws of magic that nobody even knew—but just
by the surface rules of known Charms and enchantments. You couldn’t
observe the way magic was practised nowadays and not be reminded of the
National Museum of Australia, once you realized what you were seeing.
Even if Harry’s first guess had been mistaken, one way or another it was
still inconceivable that the fundamental laws of the universe contained
a special case for human lips shaping the phrase ‘Wingardium Leviosa’.
And yet even that fumbling grasp of magic was enough to do things that
Muggle physics said should be forever impossible: the Time-Turner, water
conjured out of nothingness by Aguamenti. What were the ultimate
possibilities of invention, if the underlying laws of the universe
permitted an eleven-year-old with a stick to violate almost every
constraint in the Muggle version of physics?

Like a hunter-gatherer trying to look up at the Sun, and guess that the
universe had to be shaped in a way that allowed for nuclear energy…

It made you wonder if maybe twenty thousand million million million
metres wasn’t so much distance, after all.

There was a step beyond Abstract Reasoning Harry which he could take,
given time enough to compose himself and the right surroundings;
something beyond Abstract Reasoning Harry, as that was beyond Harry In
The Moment. Looking up at the stars, you could try to imagine what the
distant descendants of humanity would think of your dilemma—in a hundred
million years, when the stars would have spun through great galactic
movements into entirely new positions, every constellation scattered. It
was an elementary theorem of probability that if you knew what your
answer would be after updating on future evidence, you ought to adopt
that answer right now. If you knew your destination, you were already
there. And by analogy, if not quite by theorem, if you could guess what
the descendants of humanity would think of something, you ought to go
ahead and take that as your own best guess.

From that vantage point the idea of killing off two-thirds of the
Wizengamot seemed a lot less appealing than it had a few hours earlier.
Even if you had to do it, even if you knew for a solid fact that it
would be the best thing for magical Britain and that the complete Story
of Time would look worse if you didn’t do it… even as a necessity, the
deaths of sentient beings would still be a tragedy. One more element of
the sorrows of Earth; the Most Ancient Earth from which everything had
begun, long ago and far away, ever so long ago.

He is not like Grindelwald. There is nothing human left in him. Him you
must destroy. Save your fury for that, and that alone—

Harry shook his head slightly, tilting the stars a little in his vision,
as he lay on the stone floor looking upward and outward and forward in
time. Even if Dumbledore was right, and the true enemy was utterly mad
and evil… in a hundred million years the organic life-form known as Lord
Voldemort probably wouldn’t seem much different from all the other
bewildered children of Ancient Earth. Whatever Lord Voldemort had done
to himself, whatever Dark rituals seemed so horribly irrevocable on a
merely human scale, it wouldn’t be beyond curing with the technology of
a hundred million years. Killing him, even if you had to do it to save
the lives of others, would be just one more death for future sentient
beings to be sad about. How could you look up at the stars, and believe
anything else?

Harry stared up at the twinkling lights of Eternity and wondered what
the children’s children’s children would think of what Dumbledore had
maybe-done to Narcissa.

But even if you tried framing the question that way, asking what
humanity’s descendants would think, it still drew only on your own
knowledge, not theirs. The answer still came from inside yourself, and
it could still be mistaken. If you didn’t know the hundredth decimal
digit of pi yourself, then you didn’t know how the children’s children’s
children would calculate it, for all that the fact was trivial.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Slowly—he’d been lying there, looking at the stars, for longer than he’d
planned—Harry sat up from the ground. Pushing himself to his feet, the
muscles protesting, he walked over to the edge of the stone platform at
the height of the Ravenclaw tower. The stone crenellations surrounding
the edge of the tower weren’t high, not high enough to be safe. They
were markers, clearly, rather than railings. Harry didn’t approach too
close to the edge; there was no point in taking chances. Looking down at
the Hogwarts grounds below, he was predictably feeling a sense of
dizziness, the wobbly affliction called vertigo. His brain was alarmed,
it seemed, because the ground below was so distant. It might have been
fully 50 metres away.

The lesson, it seemed, was that things had to be incredibly close before
your brain could comprehend them well enough to feel fear.

It was a rare brain that could feel strongly about anything, if it
wasn’t close in space, close in time, near at hand, within easy reach…

Before, Harry had imagined that going to Azkaban would require planning
and cooperation from a grown-up confederate. Portkeys, broomsticks,
invisibility spells. Some way of getting to the bottom levels without
the Aurors noticing, so he could carve his way into the central pit
where the shadows of Death waited.

And that had been enough to put the prospect away, into the future,
safely apart from the now.

He hadn’t realized until today that it might be as simple as finding
Fawkes and telling the phœnix that it was time.

Memories were rising up again, memories that Harry could never manage to
forget for long. Though the stones beneath his feet were not smooth like
metal, though the moonlit sky stretched all around him, somehow it was
very easy to imagine himself trapped in a long metal corridor lit by dim
orange light.

The night was quiet, quiet enough for memories to be clearly audible.

No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!

No, I didn’t mean it, please don’t die!

Don’t take it away, don’t don’t don’t—

The world blurred, and Harry wiped his eyes with his sleeve.

If Hermione had been the one behind that door—

If Hermione had been put in Azkaban, Harry would have called the phœnix
and gone there and burned away every last Dementor and it wouldn’t have
made a single difference how crazy it was or what else he’d wanted to do
with his life. That was just—that was—that was just how it was.

And the woman who was behind that door—wasn’t there someone, somewhere,
to whom she too was precious? Wasn’t it only Harry’s distance from her
life that was preventing his brain from being driven to Azkaban to save
her no matter what? What would it have taken to compel him? Would he
have needed to know her face? Her name? Her favourite colour? Would he
have been driven to Azkaban to save Tracey Davis? Would he have been
compelled there to save Professor McGonagall? Mum and Dad—there wasn’t
even any question. And that woman had said she was someone’s mother. How
many people had wished for the power to break Azkaban? How many
prisoners of Azkaban dreamed nightly of such a miraculous rescue?

None. It’s a happy thought.

Maybe he should harrow Azkaban. All he had to do was find Fawkes and
tell him it was time. Visualize the centre of the Dementor’s pit as he’d
seen it from the broomstick, and let the phœnix take him there. Cast the
True Patronus Charm at point-blank range and to hell with what came
after.

All he had to do was go find Fawkes.

It might be as simple as thinking of the flame, calling for the
fire-bird in his heart—

A star flashed in the night.

By the time Harry’s eyes had jumped with a reflex action trained on
meteor showers, another part of him was surprised that the astronomical
phenomenon was still there; a faint star whose brightness was slowly
visibly waxing. There was a startled moment when Harry wondered whether
he was seeing, not a meteor, but a nova or supernova—could you see them
getting brighter like that? Was the first stage of a nova supposed to be
that yellow-orange colour?

Then the new star moved again, and seemed to grow as well as
brightening. It looked closer suddenly, no longer so far away that
distance became moot. Like what you thought was a star, turning out to
be an æroplane, a lighted form whose shape you could actually see…

…no, not a plane…

The realization seemed to spread out from Harry’s chest in a wave of
prickling, sweat preparing to break out.

…a bird.

A piercing cry split the night, echoing from the rooftops of Hogwarts.

The approaching creature trailed fire as it flew, shedding golden flames
like sparks from its feathers as the mighty wings beat and beat again.
Even as it swooped up in a great curve to hover a few paces away from
Harry, even as the flames surrounding its passage diminished, the
creature seemed no dimmer, no less bright; as though some unseen Sun
shone upon it and illuminated it.

Great shining wings red like a sunset, and eyes like incandescent
pearls, blazing with golden fire and determination.

The phœnix’s beak opened, and let out a great caw that Harry understood
as though it had been a spoken word:

COME!

Not even realizing, the boy stumbled back from the edge of the rooftop,
eyes still locked on the phœnix, his whole body trembling and tensed,
his fists clutching and releasing at his side; stepping back, stepping
away.

The phœnix cawed again, a desperate, pleading, sound. It didn’t come
through in words, this time, but it came through in feelings, an echo of
everything that Harry had ever felt about Azkaban and every temptation
to action, to just do something about it, the desperate need to do
something now and not delay any longer, all spoken in the cry of a bird.

Let’s go. It’s time. The voice that spoke came from inside Harry, not
from the phœnix; from so deep inside it couldn’t be given a separate
name like ‘Gryffindor’.

All he had to do was step forward and touch the phœnix’s talons, and it
would take him where he needed to be, where he kept thinking he ought to
be, down into the central pit of Azkaban. Harry could see the image in
his mind, shining with unbearable clarity, the image of himself suddenly
smiling with joyous release as he threw all his fears away and chose—

“But I—” Harry whispered, not even aware of what he was saying. Harry
lifted his shaking hands to wipe at his eyes from which tears had
sprung, as the phœnix hovered before him with great wing-sweeps. “But
I—there’s other people I also have to save, other things I have to do—”

The fire-bird let out a piercing scream, and the boy flinched back as
though from a blow. It wasn’t a command, it wasn’t an objection, it was
the knowledge—

The corridors lit by dim orange light.

It felt like a tightening compulsion in Harry’s chest, the desire to
just do it and get it over with. He might die, but if he didn’t die he
could feel clean again. Have principles that were more than excuses for
inaction. It was his life. His to spend, if he chose. He could do it any
time he wanted…

…if he wasn’t a good person.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The boy stood there on the rooftop, his own eyes locked with two points
of fire. The stars might have had time to shift in their constellations
while he stood there, agonizing over the decision…

…that wouldn’t…

…change.

The boy’s eyes flickered once to the stars above; and then he looked at
the phœnix.

“Not yet,” the boy said in a voice hardly audible. “Not yet. There’s too
much else I have to do. Please come back later, when I’ve found others
who can cast the True Patronus—in six months, maybe—”

Without word, without sound, a sphere of fire surrounded the bird’s
form, crackling and blazing with white and crimson veins as though it
meant to consume that which lay within; and when the fire dispersed into
grey smoke, no phœnix remained.

There was silence on the top of the Ravenclaw tower. The boy gradually
lowered his hands from his ears, pausing only to wipe at his wet cheeks.

Slowly, the boy turned—

Then cried out and leapt back and almost fell off the Ravenclaw tower;
though the misstep would hardly have mattered, with that other wizard
standing there.

“And so it was done,” Albus Dumbledore said, almost in a whisper. “So it
was done.” Fawkes was on his shoulder, staring at where the other phœnix
had been with an indecipherable avian gaze.

“What are you doing here?”

“Ah?” said the ancient man standing on the roof-platform’s opposite
corner. “I felt the presence of a creature Hogwarts did not know, and
came to see, of course.” Slowly the old wizard’s shaking hand came up to
remove the half-moon glasses, his other hand wiped at his eyes and
forehead with his robe’s sleeve. “I dared—I dared not speak—I knew, I
knew this choice above all choices must be your own—”

A strange apprehension was beginning to fill Harry, welling up in him
like a sick feeling in his stomach.

“That everything depended on this,” Albus Dumbledore said, still in that
almost-whisper, “that much I knew. But which choice led into darkness,
that I could not guess. At least the choice was your own.”

“I don’t—” Harry said, and then his voice stopped.

A terrible hypothesis, rising in credibility…

“The phœnix comes,” said the old wizard. “To those who would fight, to
those would act even at cost of their lives, the phœnix comes. Phœnixes
are not wise, Harry, they know no means to judge us, save witnessing the
choice. I thought it was to my death I went, when the phœnix took me to
fight Grindelwald. I did not know that Fawkes would sustain me, and heal
me, and stay by my side—” The old wizard’s voice quavered, for a moment.
“It is not spoken of—you should realize, Harry, why it is never spoken
of—if one knew, the phœnix could not judge. But to you, Harry, I may say
it now, for the phœnix comes only once.”

The old wizard walked across the top of the Ravenclaw tower to where a
boy stood rooted in dawning horror, in dawning and utter horror.

In my duel with Grindelwald I could not win, only fight him for long
hours until he collapsed in exhaustion; and I would have died of it
afterwards, if not for Fawkes—

Harry didn’t even know he was speaking, until the whisper had escaped
him—

“Then I could have—”

“Could you have?” said the ancient wizard, his voice sounding far older
than his normal tones. “Three times, now, a phœnix has come for my
student. One did send hers away, and the grief of it broke her, I think.
And the last was cousin to your young friend Lavender Brown, and he—”
The old wizard’s voice cracked. “He did not return, poor John, and he
saved none of those he meant to save. It is said, among the few scholars
of phœnix-lore, that not one in four returns from their ordeal. And even
if you did survive—for the life you must lead, Harry James
Potter-Evans-Verres—the choices you must make and the path you must
walk—to always hear the phœnix’s cries—who is to say it would not have
driven you mad?” The old wizard raised his sleeve again, drawing it once
more across his face. “I had more joy of Fawkes’s companionship, in the
days before I fought Voldemort.”

The boy did not seem to be listening, all his eyes were on the red-gold
bird on the ancient wizard’s shoulder. “Fawkes?” the boy said in shaking
voice. “Why won’t you look at me, Fawkes?”

Fawkes craned his head to peer at the boy curiously, then turned back
and resumed gazing at his master.

“See?” said the old wizard. “He does not reject you. Fawkes may not be
interested in you in quite that way, now; and he knows—” the wizard
smiled wryly, “—that you are not exactly loyal to his master. But one to
whom the phœnix comes at all—cannot be one whom a phœnix would dislike.”
The wizard’s voice fell to a whisper again. “There never was a bird seen
on Godric Gryffindor’s shoulder. Though it is not written even in his
secrets, I think he must have sent his phœnix away, before he chose the
red and gold for his colours. Perhaps the guilt of it urged him to
greater lengths than he ever would have dared otherwise. Or it might
have taught him humility, and respect for human frailty, and failure…”
The wizard bowed his head. “I truly do not know if your choice was wise.
I truly do not know if it was the right thing, or the wrong thing. If I
knew, Harry, I would have spoken. But I—” Dumbledore’s voice broke,
then. “I am nothing but a foolish young boy who has become a foolish old
man, and I have no wisdom.”

Harry couldn’t breathe, the nausea seeming to fill and overflow his
whole body, stomach locked solid. He was suddenly and terribly certain
that he had failed, in some final sense failed, failed this very night—

The boy whirled and ran out to the curb of the Ravenclaw rooftop. “Come
back!” His voice cracked, rising to a shriek. “Come back!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Final Aftermath

She came awake with a gasp of horror, she woke with an unvoiced scream
on her lips and no words came forth, she could not understand what she
had seen, she could not understand what she had seen—

“What time is it?” she whispered.

Her golden jewelled alarm clock whispered back, “Around eleven at night.
Go back to sleep.”

Her sheets were soaked in sweat, her nightclothes soaked in sweat, she
took her wand from beside the pillow and cleaned herself up before she
tried to go back to sleep and eventually succeeded.

Sybill Trelawney went back to sleep.

In the Forbidden Forest, a centaur woken by a nameless apprehension
ceased scanning the night sky, having found only questions there and no
answers; and with a folding of his many legs, Firenze went back to
sleep.

In the distant lands of magical Asia, an ancient witch named Fan Tong,
sleeping the tired days away, told her anxious great-great-grandson that
she was fine, it had only been a nightmare, and went back to sleep.

In a land where Muggle-borns received no letters of any kind, a
girl-child too young to have a name of her own was rocked in the arms of
her annoyed but loving mother until she stopped crying and went back to
sleep.

None of them slept well.

5. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and the Last Enemy

86. Multiple Hypothesis Testing

(International news headlines of April 7th, 1992:)

Toronto Magical Tribune:

Entire British Wizengamot
Reports Seeing ‘Boy-Who-Lived’
Frighten a Dementor

Expert on Magical Creatures:
“Now You’re Just Lying”

France, Germany Accuse Britain
of Making the Whole Thing Up

New Zealand Spellcrafter’s Diurnal Notice:

What Drove British Legislature Insane?
Could Our Government Be Next?

Experts List Top 28 Reasons
To Believe It’s Already Happened

American Mage:

Werewolf Clan to Become
First Inhabitants of Wyoming

The Quibbler:

Malfoy Flees Hogwarts
As Veela Powers Awaken

Daily Prophet:

Legal Tricks Free
“Mad Muggle-born”
As Potter Threatens Ministry
With Attack on Azkaban

Hypothesis: Voldemort (April 8th, 1992, 7:22 p.m.)

THE four of them gathered once more around the ancient desk of the
Headmaster of Hogwarts, with its drawers within drawers within drawers,
wherein all the past paperwork of the Hogwarts School was stored; legend
had it that Headmistress Shehla had once got lost in that desk, and was,
in fact, still there, and wouldn’t be let out again until she got her
files organized. Minerva didn’t particularly look forward to inheriting
those drawers, when she inherited that desk some day—if any of them
survived.

Albus Dumbledore was seated behind his desk, looking grave and composed.

Severus Snape was standing next to the dead Floo and its ashes, hovering
ominously like the vampire that students sometimes accused him of
pretending to be.

Mad-Eye Moody had been meant to join them, but was yet to arrive.

And Harry…

A boy’s small, thin frame, perched on the arm of his chair, as though
the energies running through him were too great to allow ordinary
seating. Set face, sweaty hair, intent green eyes, and within it all,
the jagged lightning bolt of his livid scar. He seemed grimmer, now;
even compared to a single week earlier.

For a moment Minerva flashed back to her trip to Diagon Alley with
Harry, what seemed like ages and ages ago. There’d been this sombre boy
inside that Harry, somehow, even then. This wasn’t entirely her own
fault, or Albus’s fault. And yet there was something almost unbearably
sad about the contrast between the young boy she’d first met, and what
magical Britain had made of him. Harry had never had much of an ordinary
childhood, she’d gathered; Harry’s adoptive parents had said to her that
he’d spoken little and played less with Muggle children. It was painful
to think that Harry might have had only a few months of playing beside
the other children in Hogwarts, before the war’s demands had stripped it
all away. Maybe there was another face that Harry showed to the children
his own age, when he wasn’t staring down the Wizengamot. But she
couldn’t stop herself from imagining Harry Potter’s childhood as a heap
of firewood, and herself and Albus feeding the wooden branches, piece by
piece, into the flames.

“Prophecies are strange things,” said Albus Dumbledore. The old wizard’s
eyes were half-lidded, as though in weariness. “Vague, unclear, meaning
escaping like water held between loose fingers. Prophecy is ever a
burden, for there are no answers there, only questions.”

Harry Potter was sitting tensely. “Headmaster Dumbledore,” said the boy
with soft precision, “my friends are being targeted. Hermione Granger
almost went to Azkaban. The war has begun, as you put it. Professor
Trelawney’s prophecy is key information for weighing up the balance of
my hypotheses about what’s going on. Not to mention how silly it is—and
dangerous—that the Dark Lord knows the prophecy and I don’t.”

Albus looked a grim question at her, and she shook her head in reply; in
whatever unimaginable way Harry had discovered that Trelawney had made
the prophecy and that the Dark Lord knew of it, he hadn’t learned that
much from her.

“Voldemort, seeking to avert that very prophecy, went to his defeat at
your hands,” the old wizard said then. “His knowledge brought him only
harm. Ponder that carefully, Harry Potter.”

“Yes, Headmaster, I do understand that. My home culture also has a
literary tradition of self-fulfilling and misinterpreted prophecies.
I’ll interpret with caution, rest assured. But I’ve already guessed
quite a bit. Is it safer for me to work from partial guesses?”

Time passed.

“Minerva,” said Albus. “If you would.”

“The one…” she began. The words came falteringly to her throat; she was
no actress. She couldn’t imitate the deep, chilling tone of the original
prophecy; and yet somehow that tone seemed to carry all the meaning.
“The one with power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches… born to those
who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies…”

“And the Dark Lord shall mark him as his equal,” came Severus’s voice,
making her jump within her chair. The Potions Master loomed tall by the
fireplace. “But he shall have power the Dark Lord knows not… and either
must destroy all but a remnant of the other, for those two different
spirits cannot exist in the same world.”

That last line Severus spoke with so much foreboding that it chilled her
bones; it was almost like listening to Sybill Trelawney.

Harry was listening with a frown. “Can you repeat that?” said Harry.

“The one with power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches, born to those
who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month—”

“Actually, hold on, can you write that down? I need to analyse this
carefully—”

This was done, with both Albus and Severus watching the parchment
hawklike, as though to make sure that no unseen hand reached in and
snatched the precious information away.

“Let’s see…” Harry said. “I’m male and born on July 31st, check. I did
in fact vanquish the Dark Lord, check. Ambiguous pronoun in line two…
but I wasn’t born yet so it’s hard to see how my parents could have
thrice defied me. This scar is an obvious candidate for the mark…” Harry
touched his forehead. “Then there’s the power the Dark Lord knows not,
which probably refers to my scientific background—”

“No,” said Severus.

Harry looked at the Potions Master in surprise.

Severus’s eyes were closed, his face tightened in concentration. “The
Dark Lord could obtain that power by studying the same books as you,
Potter. But the prophecy did not say, power the Dark Lord has not. Nor
even, power the Dark Lord cannot have. She spoke of power the Dark Lord
knows not… it will be something stranger to him than Muggle artifacts.
Something perhaps that he cannot comprehend at all, even having seen
it…”

“Science is not a bag of technological tricks,” Harry said. “It’s not
just the Muggle version of a wand. It’s not even knowledge like
memorizing the periodic table. It’s a different way of thinking.”

“Perhaps…” the Potions Master murmured, but his voice was skeptical.

“It is hazardous,” Albus said, “to read too far into a prophecy, even if
you have heard it yourself. They are things of exceeding frustration.”

“So I see,” Harry said. His hand rose up, rubbed the scar on his
forehead. “But… okay, if this is really all we know… look, I’ll just put
it bluntly. How do you know that the Dark Lord actually survived?”

“What?” she cried. Albus just sighed and leaned back in the vast
Headmaster’s chair.

“Well,” Harry said, “imagine how this prophecy sounded back when it was
made. You-Know-Who learns the prophecy, and it sounds like I’m destined
to grow up and overthrow him. That the two of us are meant to have a
final battle where either of us must destroy all but a remnant of the
other. So You-Know-Who attacks Godric’s Hollow and immediately gets
vanquished, leaving behind some remnant which may or may not be his
disembodied soul. Maybe the Death Eaters are his remnant, or the Dark
Mark. This prophecy could already be fulfilled, is what I’m saying.
Don’t get me wrong—I do realize that my interpretation sounds stretched.
Trelawney’s phrasing doesn’t seem natural for describing only the events
that historically happened on October 31st, 1981. Attacking a baby and
having the spell bounce off, isn’t something you’d normally call ‘the
power to vanquish’. But if you think of the prophecy as being about
several possible futures, only one of which was actually realized on
Halloween, then the prophecy could already be complete.”

“But—” Minerva blurted. “But the raid on Azkaban—”

“If the Dark Lord survived, then sure, he’s the most likely suspect for
the Azkaban breakout,” Harry said reasonably. “You could even say that
the Azkaban breakout is Bayesian evidence for the Dark Lord surviving,
because an Azkaban breakout is more likely to happen in worlds where
he’s alive than worlds where he’s dead. But it’s not strong Bayesian
evidence. It’s not something that can’t possibly happen unless the Dark
Lord is alive. Professor Quirrell, who didn’t start from the assumption
that You-Know-Who was still around, had no trouble thinking of his own
explanation. To him, it was obvious that some powerful wizard might want
Bellatrix Black because she knew a secret of the Dark Lord’s, like some
of his magical knowledge that he’d told only her. The priors against
anyone surviving their body’s death are very low, even if it’s magically
possible. Most times it doesn’t happen. So if it’s just the Azkaban
breakout… I’d have to say formally that it isn’t enough Bayesian
evidence. The improbability of the evidence assuming that the hypothesis
is false, is not commensurate with the prior improbability of the
hypothesis.”

“No,” Severus said flatly. “The prophecy is not yet fulfilled. I would
know if it were.”

“Are you sure of that?”

“Yes, Potter. If the prophecy had already come true, I would understand
it! I heard Trelawney’s words, I remember Trelawney’s voice, and if I
knew the events that matched the prophecy, I would recognize them. What
has already happened… does not fit.” The Potions Master spoke with
certainty.

“I’m not really sure what to do with that statement,” Harry said. His
hand rose up, absently rubbed at his forehead. “Maybe it’s just what you
think happened that doesn’t fit, and the true history is different…”

“Voldemort is alive,” Albus said. “There are other indications.”

“Such as?” Harry’s reply was instant.

Albus paused. “There are terrible rituals by which wizards have returned
from death,” Albus said slowly. “That much, anyone can discern within
history and legend. And yet those books are missing, I could not find
them; it was Voldemort who removed them, I am sure—”

“So you can’t find any books on immortality, and that proves that
You-Know-Who has them?”

“Indeed,” said Albus. “There is a certain book—I will not name it
aloud—missing from the Restricted Section of the Hogwarts library. An
ancient scroll which should have been at Borgin and Burkes, with only an
empty place on a shelf to show where it was—” The old wizard stopped.
“But I suppose,” the old wizard said, as though to himself, “you will
say that even if Voldemort tried to make himself immortal, it does not
prove that he succeeded…”

Harry sighed. “Proof, Headmaster? There are only ever probabilities. If
there are known, particular books on immortality rituals which are
missing, that increases the probability that someone attempted one.
Which, in turn, raises the prior probability of the Dark Lord surviving
his death. This I concede, and thank you for contributing the fact. The
question is whether the prior probability goes up enough.”

“Surely,” Albus said quietly, “if you concede even a chance that
Voldemort survived, that is worth guarding against?”

Harry inclined his head. “As you say, Headmaster. Though once a
probability drops low enough, it’s also an error to go on obsessing
about it… Given that books on immortality are missing, and that this
prophecy would sound somewhat more natural if it refers to the Dark Lord
and I having a future battle, I agree that the Dark Lord being alive is
a probability, not just possibility. But other probabilities must also
be taken into account—and in the probable worlds where You-Know-Who is
not alive, someone else framed Hermione.”

“Foolishness,” Severus said softly. “Utter foolishness. The Dark Mark
has not faded, nor has its master.”

“See, that’s what I mean by formally insufficient Bayesian evidence.
Sure, it sounds all grim and foreboding and stuff, but is it that
unlikely for a magical mark to stay around after the maker dies? Suppose
the mark is certain to continue while the Dark Lord’s sentience lives
on, but a priori we’d only have guessed a twenty percent chance of the
Dark Mark continuing to exist after the Dark Lord dies. Then the
observation, ‘The Dark Mark has not faded’ is five times as likely to
occur in worlds where the Dark Lord is alive as in worlds where the Dark
Lord is dead. Is that really commensurate with the prior improbability
of immortality? Let’s say the prior odds were a hundred-to-one against
the Dark Lord surviving. If a hypothesis is a hundred times as likely to
be false versus true, and then you see evidence five times more likely
if the hypothesis is true versus false, you should update to believing
the hypothesis is twenty times as likely to be false as true. Odds of a
hundred to one, times a likelihood ratio of one to five, equals odds of
twenty to one that the Dark Lord is dead—”

“Where are you getting all these numbers, Potter?”

“That is the admitted weakness of the method,” Harry said readily. “But
what I’m qualitatively getting at is why the observation, ‘The Dark Mark
has not faded’, is not adequate support for the hypothesis, ‘The Dark
Lord is immortal.’ The evidence isn’t as extraordinary as the claim.”
Harry paused. “Not to mention that even if the Dark Lord is alive, he
doesn’t have to be the one who framed Hermione. As a cunning man once
said, there could be more than one plotter and more than one plan.”

“Such as the Defence Professor,” Severus said with a thin smile. “I
suppose I must agree that he is a suspect. It was the Defence Professor
last year, after all; and the year before that, and the year before
that.”

Harry’s eyes dropped back to the parchment in his lap. “Let’s move on.
Are we certain that this Prophecy is accurate? Nobody messed with
Professor McGonagall’s memory, maybe edited or subtracted a line?”

Albus paused, then spoke slowly. “There is a great spell laid over
Britain, recording every prophecy said within our borders. Far beneath
the Most Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot, in the Department of Mysteries,
they are recorded.”

“The Hall of Prophecy,” Minerva whispered. She’d read about that place,
said to be a great room of shelves filled with glowing orbs, one after
another appearing over the years. Merlin himself had wrought it, it was
said; the greatest wizard’s final slap to the face of Fate. Not all
prophecies conduced to the good; and Merlin had wished for at least
those spoken of in prophecy, to know what had been spoken of them. That
was the respect Merlin had given to their free will, that Destiny might
not control them from the outside, unwitting. Those mentioned within a
prophecy would have a glowing orb float to their hand, and then hear the
prophet’s true voice speaking. Others who tried to touch an orb, it was
said, would be driven mad—or possibly just have their heads explode, the
legends were unclear on this point. Whatever Merlin’s original
intention, the Unspeakables hadn’t let anyone enter in centuries, so far
as she’d heard. Works of the Ancient Wizards had stated that later
Unspeakables had discovered that tipping off the subjects of prophecies
could interfere with seers releasing whatever temporal pressures they
released; and so the heirs of Merlin had sealed his Hall. It did occur
to Minerva to wonder (now that she’d spent a few months around
Mr Potter) how anyone could possibly know that; but she also knew better
than to ask Albus, in case Albus tried to tell her. Minerva firmly
believed that you only ought to worry about Time if you were a clock.

“The Hall of Prophecy,” Albus confirmed quietly. “Those who are spoken
of in a prophecy, may listen to that prophecy there. Do you see the
implication, Harry?”

Harry frowned. “Well, I could listen to it, or the Dark Lord… oh, my
parents. Those who had thrice defied him. They were also mentioned in
the prophecy, so they could hear the recording?”

“If James and Lily heard anything different from what Minerva reported,”
Albus said evenly, “they did not say so to me.”

“You took James and Lily there?” Minerva said.

“Fawkes can go to many places,” Albus said. “Do not mention the fact.”

Harry was staring directly at Albus. “Can I go to this Department of
Mysteries place and hear the recorded prophecy? The original tone of
voice might be helpful, from what I’ve heard.”

Light glinted from the reflection of Albus’s half-moon glasses as the
old wizard slowly shook his head. “I think that would be unwise,” Albus
said. “For reasons beyond the obvious. It is dangerous, that place which
Merlin made; more dangerous to some people than others.”

“I see,” Harry said tonelessly, and looked back down at the parchment.
“I’ll take the prophecy as assumed accurate for now. The next part says
that the Dark Lord has marked me as his equal. Any ideas on what that
means exactly?”

“Surely not,” said Albus, “that you must imitate his ways, in any wise.”

“I’m not dumb, Headmaster. Muggles have worked out a thing or two about
temporal paradoxes, even if it’s all theoretical to them. I won’t throw
away my ethics just because a signal from the future claims it’s going
to happen, because then that becomes the only reason why it happened in
the first place. Still, what does it mean?”

“I do not know,” said Severus.

“Nor I,” she said.

Harry took out his wand, turned it over in his hands, gazing
meditatively at the wood. “Eleven inches, holly, with a core of phœnix
feather,” Harry said. “And the phœnix whose tail feather is in this
wand, only ever gave one other, which Mr… what was his name,
Olive-something… made into the core of the Dark Lord’s wand. And I’m a
Parselmouth. It seemed like a lot of coincidence even then. And now I
find out there’s a prophecy stating that I’ll be the Dark Lord’s equal.”

Severus’s eyes were thoughtful; the Headmaster’s gaze, unreadable.

“Could it be,” Minerva said falteringly, “that You-Know-Who—that
Voldemort—transferred some of his own powers to Mr Potter, the night he
gave him that scar? Not something he intended to do, surely. Still… I
don’t see how Mr Potter could be his equal, if he had any less magic
than the Dark Lord himself…”

“Meh,” said Harry, still looking meditatively at his wand. “I’d fight
the Dark Lord without any magic at all, if I had to. Homo sapiens didn’t
become the dominant species on this planet by having the sharpest claws
or hardest armour—though I suppose some of that point may be lost on
wizards. Still, it’s beneath my dignity as a human being to be scared of
anything that isn’t smarter than I am; and from what I’ve heard, on that
particular dimension the Dark Lord wasn’t very scary.”

The Potions Master spoke, his voice taking on some of his customary
contemptuous drawl. “You imagine yourself more intelligent than the Dark
Lord, Potter?”

“Yes, in fact,” said Harry, pulling back the left sleeve of his robes,
and rolling up the shirtsleeve beneath to expose the bare elbow. “Oh,
that reminds me! Let’s make sure nobody here has the clearly visible
tattoo in the standard, easily checkable location which would mark them
as a secret enemy spy.”

Albus made a quieting gesture that halted the Potions Master before he
could say anything scathing. “Tell me, Harry,” Albus said, “how would
you have crafted the Dark Mark?”

“Non-standard locations,” Harry said promptly, “not easily found without
embarrassment and fuss, though of course any security-conscious person
would check anyway. Make it smaller, if possible. Overlay another
non-magical tattoo to obscure the exact shape—better yet, cover it with
a layer of fake skin—”

“Cunning indeed,” Albus said. “But tell me, suppose you could craft any
conditions you wished into the Mark, fading it or raising it as you
wished. What would you do then?”

“Make it completely invisible at all times,” Harry said in tones of
stating the obvious. “You don’t want there to be any detectable
difference between a spy and a non-spy.”

“Suppose you are more cunning still,” Albus said. “You are a master of
trickery, a master of deception, and you employ your abilities to the
fullest.”

“Well—” The boy stopped, frowning. “It seems unnecessarily complicated,
more like a tactic a villain would use in a role-playing game than
something you’d try in a real-life war. But I suppose you could put fake
Dark Marks on people who aren’t really Death Eaters, and keep the Dark
Marks on the real Death Eaters invisible. But then there’s the question
of why people would start believing in the first place that the Dark
Mark identified a Death Eater… I’d have to think about it for at least
five minutes, if I were going to take the problem seriously.”

“I ask you this,” Albus said, still in that mild tone, “because I did
indeed, in the early days of the war, perform such tests as you
suggested. The Order survived my folly only because Alastor did not
trust in the bare arms we saw. I had thought, afterwards, that the
bearers of the Mark might hide it or show it at their will. And yet when
we hauled Igor Karkaroff before the Wizengamot, that Mark showed clear
on his arm, for all that Karkaroff wished to protest his innocence. What
true rule may govern the Dark Mark, I do not know. Even Severus is still
bound by his Mark not to reveal its secrets to any who do not know
them.”

“Oh, well that makes it obvious,” Harry said promptly. “Wait, hold
on—you were a Death Eater?” Harry transferred his stare to Severus.

Severus returned a thin smile. “I still am, so far as they know.”

“Harry,” said Albus, eyes only for the boy. “What do you mean, that
makes it obvious?”

“Information theory 101,” the boy said in a lecturing tone. “Observing
variable X conveys information about variable Y, if and only if the
possible values of X have different probabilities given different states
of Y. The instant you hear about anything whatsoever that varies between
a spy and a non-spy, you should immediately think of exploiting it to
distinguish spies from non-spies. Similarly, to distinguish reality from
lies, you need a process which behaves differently in the presence of
truth and falsehood—that’s why ‘faith’ doesn’t work as a discriminant,
while ‘make experimental predictions and test them’ does. You say
someone with the Dark Mark can’t reveal its secrets to anyone who
doesn’t already know them. So to find out how the Dark Mark operates,
write down every way you can imagine the Dark Mark might work, then
watch Professor Snape try to tell each of those things to a
confederate—maybe one who doesn’t know what the experiment is about—I’ll
explain binary search later so that you can play Twenty Questions to
narrow things down—and whatever he can’t say out loud is true. His
silence would be something that behaves differently in the presence of
true statements about the Mark, versus false statements, you see.”

Minerva’s mouth was hanging open, she realized; and she closed it
abruptly. Even Albus looked surprised.

“And after that, like I said, any behavioural difference between spies
and non-spies can be used to identify spies. Once you’ve identified at
least one magically censored secret of the Dark Mark, you can test
someone for the Dark Mark by seeing if they can reveal that secret to
somebody who doesn’t already know it—”

“Thank you, Mr Potter.”

Everyone looked at Severus. The Potions Master was straightening, his
teeth bared in a grimace of angry triumph. “Headmaster, I can now speak
freely of the Mark. If we know we are caught for a Death Eater, before
others who have not yet seen our bare arms, our Mark reveals itself
whether we will it or no. But if they have already seen our arms bare,
it does not reveal itself; nor if we are only being tested from
suspicion. Thus the Dark Mark seems to identify Death Eaters—but only
those already found, you perceive.”

“Ah…” Albus said. “Thank you, Severus.” He closed his eyes briefly.
“That would indeed explain why Black escaped even Peter’s notice… ah,
well. And Harry’s proposed test?”

The Potions Master shook his head. “The Dark Lord was no fool, despite
Potter’s delusions. The moment such a test is suspected, the Mark ceases
to bind our tongues. Yet I could not hint at the possibility, but only
wait for another to deduce it.” Another thin smile. “I would award you a
good many House points, Mr Potter, if it would not compromise my cover.
But as you can see, the Dark Lord was quite cunning.” His gaze grew more
distant. “Oh,” Severus breathed, “he was very cunning indeed…”

Harry Potter sat still for a long moment.

Then—

“No,” Harry said. The boy shook his head. “No, that can’t actually be
true. First of all, we’re talking about the kind of logic puzzle that
would appear in chapter one of a Raymond Smullyan book, nowhere near the
level of what Muggle scientists do for a living. And second, for all I
know, it took the Dark Lord five months of thinking to invent the puzzle
I just solved in five seconds—”

“Is it that inconceivable to you, Potter, that anyone could be so
intelligent as yourself?” The Potions Master’s voice held more curiosity
than scorn.

“It’s called a base rate, Professor Snape. The evidence is equally
compatible with the Dark Lord inventing that puzzle over the course of
five months or over the course of five seconds, but in any given
population there’ll be many more people who can do it in five months
than in five seconds…” Harry pasted a hand against his forehead. “Darn
it, how can I explain this? I suppose, from your perspective, the Dark
Lord came up with a clever puzzle and I cleverly solved it and that
makes us look equal.”

“I remember your first day of Potions class,” the Potions Master said
dryly. “I think you have some way still to go.”

“Peace, Severus,” Albus said. “Harry has already accomplished more than
you know. Yet tell me, Harry—why do you believe the Dark Lord is less
than you? Surely he is a damaged soul in many ways. But cunning for
cunning—you are not yet ready to face him, I would judge; and I know the
full tally of your deeds.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The frustrating thing about this conversation was that Harry couldn’t
say his actual reasons for disagreeing, which violated several basic
principles of cooperative discourse.

He couldn’t explain how Bellatrix had really been removed from
Azkaban—not by You-Know-Who in any guise, but by the combined wits of
Harry and Professor Quirrell.

Harry didn’t want to say in front of Professor McGonagall that the
existence of brain damage implied that there were no such things as
souls. Which made a successful immortality ritual… well, not impossible,
Harry certainly intended to forge a road to magical immortality some
day, but it would be a lot harder and require much more ingenuity than
just binding an already-existent soul to a lich’s phylactery. Which no
intelligent wizard would bother doing in the first place, if they knew
their souls were immortal.

And the true and honest reason Harry knew the Dark Lord couldn’t have
been that smart… well… there wasn’t any tactful way to say it, but…

Harry had been to a convocation of the Wizengamot. He’d seen the
laughable ‘security precautions’, if you could call them that, guarding
the deepest levels of the Ministry of Magic. They didn’t even have the
Thief’s Downfall which goblins used to wash away Polyjuice and Imperius
Curses on people entering Gringotts. The obvious takeover route would be
to Imperius the Minister of Magic and a few department heads, and owl a
hand grenade to anyone too powerful to Imperius. Or owl them knockout
gas, if you needed them alive and in a state of Living Death to take
hairs for Polyjuice potions. Legilimency, False Memories, the Confundus
Charm—it was ridiculous, the magical world was supersaturated with ways
to cheat. Harry might not do any of those things himself, during his own
takeover of Britain, since he was constrained by Ethics… well, Harry
might do some of the lesser ones, since Polyjuice or a temporary
Confundus or read-only Legilimency all sounded better than an extra day
of Azkaban… but…

If Harry hadn’t been constrained by Ethics, it was possible he could’ve
wiped out the eviller sections of the Wizengamot that day; all by
himself, using only a first-year’s magical power, on account of being
clever enough to figure out Dementors. Though Harry might not have been
in such a great political position after that, the surviving Wizengamot
members might’ve found it easy and cheap to disavow his actions for P.R.
purposes and condemn him, even if the smarter ones realized it was for
the greater good… but still.

If you were completely unrestrained by ethics, armed with the ancient
secrets of Salazar Slytherin, had dozens of powerful followers including
Lucius Malfoy, and it took you more than ten years to fail to overthrow
the government of magical Britain, it meant you were stupid.

“How can I put this…” Harry said. “Look, Headmaster, you’ve got ethics,
there’s a lot of battle tactics you don’t use because you’re not evil.
And you fought the Dark Lord, a tremendously powerful wizard who wasn’t
so restrained, and you held him off anyway. If You-Know-Who had been
super-smart on top of that, you’d be dead. All of you. You’d have died
instantly—”

“Harry,” Professor McGonagall said. Her voice was faltering. “Harry, we
almost did all die. More than half the Order of the Phœnix died. If not
for Albus—Albus Dumbledore, the greatest wizard in two centuries,
Harry—we surely would have perished.”

Harry passed a hand across his forehead. “I’m sorry,” Harry said. “I’m
not trying to minimize what you went through. I know that You-Know-Who
was a completely evil, incredibly powerful Dark Wizard with dozens of
powerful followers, and that’s… bad, yes, definitely bad. It’s just…”
All that isn’t on remotely the same threat scale as the enemy being
smart, in which case they Transfigure botulinum toxin and sneak a
millionth of a gram into your teacup. Was there any safe way to convey
that concept without citing specifics? Harry couldn’t think of one.

“Please, Harry,” said Professor McGonagall. “Please, Harry, I beg
you—take the Dark Lord seriously! He is more dangerous than—” The senior
witch seemed to be having trouble finding words. “He is far more
dangerous than Transfiguration.”

Harry’s eyebrows went up before he could stop himself. A dark chuckle
came from Severus Snape’s direction.

Um, said the voice of Ravenclaw within him. Um, honestly Professor
McGonagall is right, we’re not taking this as seriously as we’d take a
scientific problem. The difficult thing is to react at all to new
information, instead of just flushing it out the window. Right now it
looks like we didn’t shift belief at all after encountering an
unexpected, important argument. Our dismissal of Lord Voldemort as a
serious threat was originally based on the Dark Mark being blatantly
stupid. It would require a focused effort to de-update and suspect the
whole garden-path of reasoning we went down based on that false
assumption, and we’re not putting in that effort right now.

“All right,” Harry said, just as Professor McGonagall seemed to be about
to speak again. “All right, to take this seriously, I need to stop and
think for five minutes.”

“Please do,” said Albus Dumbledore.

Harry closed his eyes.

His Ravenclaw side divided into three.

Probability estimate, said Ravenclaw One, who was acting as moderator.
That the Dark Lord is alive, and as smart as we are, and hence a genuine
threat.

Why aren’t all his enemies already dead? said Ravenclaw Two, who was
prosecuting.

Note, said Ravenclaw One, we had already thought of that argument so we
can’t use it to shift belief again each time we rehearse it.

But what’s the actual flaw in the logic? said Ravenclaw Two. In worlds
with a smart Lord Voldemort, everyone in the Order of the Phœnix died in
the first five minutes of the war. The world doesn’t look like that, so
we don’t live in that world. QED.

Is that really certain? asked Ravenclaw Three, who’d been appointed as
the defender. Maybe there was some reason Lord Voldemort wasn’t fighting
all out back then—

Like what? demanded Ravenclaw Two. Furthermore, whatever your excuse, I
demand that the probability of your hypothesis be penalized in
accordance with its added complexity—

Let Three talk, said Ravenclaw One.

Okay… look, said Ravenclaw Three. First of all, we don’t know that
anyone can take over the Ministry just with mind control. Maybe magical
Britain is really an oligarchy and you need enough military power to
intimidate the family heads into submission—

Imperius them too, interjected Ravenclaw Two.

—and the oligarchs have Thief’s Downfall in the entrances to their
homes—

Complexity penalty! cried Ravenclaw Two. More epicycles!

—oh, be reasonable, said Ravenclaw Three. We haven’t actually seen
anyone taking over the Ministry with a couple of well-placed Imperius
curses. We don’t know that it can actually be done that easily.

But, said Ravenclaw Two, even taking that into account… it really seems
like there should’ve been some other way. Ten years of failure, really?
Using only conventional terrorist tactics? That’s just… not even trying.

Maybe Lord Voldemort did have more creative ideas, replied Ravenclaw
Three, but he didn’t want to tip his hand to other countries’
governments, didn’t want them to know how vulnerable they were and
install Thief’s Downfall in their Ministries. Not until he had Britain
as a base and enough servants to subvert all the other major governments
simultaneously.

You’re assuming he wants to conquer the whole world, noted Ravenclaw
Two.

Trelawney prophesied that he would be our equal, intoned Ravenclaw Three
solemnly. Therefore, he wanted to take over the world.

And if he is your equal, and you do have to fight him—

For an instant, Harry’s mind tried to imagine the spectre of two
creative wizards fighting an all-out war against each other.

Harry had noted all the Charms and Potions in his first-year books that
could be creatively used to kill people. He hadn’t been able to help
himself. Literally. He’d tried to stop his brain from doing it each
time, but it was like looking at a fish and trying to stop your brain
from noticing it was a fish. What someone could creatively do with
seventh-year, or Auror-level, or ancient lost magic such as Lord
Voldemort had possessed… didn’t bear thinking about. A
magically-superpowered creative-genius psychopath wasn’t a ‘threat’, it
was an extinction event.

Then Harry shook his head, dismissing the gloomy line his reasoning had
been going down. The question was whether there was a significant
probability of facing anything so terrible as a Dark Rationalist in the
first place.

Prior odds that someone attempting an immortality ritual would actually
have it work…

Call it one to a thousand, at a generous overestimate; it was not the
case that roughly one wizard in a thousand survived their death. Though,
admittedly Harry didn’t have data on how many had attempted immortality
rituals first.

What if the Dark Lord is as smart as us? said Ravenclaw Three. You know,
the way Trelawney prophesied him being our equal. Then he would make his
immortality ritual work. P.S., don’t forget that ‘destroy all but a
remnant of the other’ line.

Requiring that level of intelligence was an additional burdensome
detail; prior odds of a random population member being that intelligent
were low…

But Lord Voldemort wasn’t a randomly selected wizard, he was one
particular wizard in the population who’d come to everyone’s attention.
The puzzle of the Mark implied a certain minimum level of intelligence,
even if (hypothetically) the Dark Lord had taken longer to think it
through. Then again, in the Muggle world, all of the extremely
intelligent people Harry knew about from history had not become evil
dictators or terrorists. The closest thing to that in the Muggle world
was hedge-fund managers, and none of them had tried to take over so much
as a Third World country, a point which put upper bounds on both their
possible evil and possible goodness.

There were hypotheses where the Dark Lord was smart and the Order of the
Phœnix didn’t just instantly die, but those hypotheses were more
complicated and ought to get complexity penalties. After the complexity
penalties of the further excuses were factored in, there would be a
large likelihood ratio from the hypotheses ‘The Dark Lord is smart’
versus ‘The Dark Lord was stupid’ to the observation, ‘The Dark Lord did
not instantly win the war’. That was probably worth a 10:1 likelihood
ratio in favour of the Dark Lord being stupid… but maybe not 100:1. You
couldn’t actually say that ‘The Dark Lord instantly wins’ had a
probability of more than 99 percent, assuming the Dark Lord started out
smart; the sum over all possible excuses would be more than .01.

And then there was the Prophecy… which might or might not have
originally included a line about how Lord Voldemort would immediately
die if he confronted the Potters. Which Albus Dumbledore had then edited
in Professor McGonagall’s memory, in order to lure Lord Voldemort to his
doom. If there was no such line, the Prophecy did sound somewhat more
like You-Know-Who and the Boy-Who-Lived were destined to have some later
confrontation. But in that case, it was less likely that Dumbledore
would’ve come up with a plausible-sounding excuse not to take Harry to
the Hall of Prophecy…

Harry was wondering if he could even get a Bayesian calculation out of
this. Of course, the point of a subjective Bayesian calculation wasn’t
that, after you made up a bunch of numbers, multiplying them out would
give you an exactly right answer. The real point was that the process of
making up numbers would force you to tally all the relevant facts and
weigh all the relative probabilities. Like realizing, as soon as you
actually thought about the probability of the Dark Mark not fading if
You-Know-Who was dead, that the probability wasn’t low enough for the
observation to count as strong evidence. One version of the process was
to tally hypotheses and list out evidence, make up all the numbers, do
the calculation, and then throw out the final answer and go with your
brain’s gut feeling after you’d forced it to really weigh everything.
The trouble was that the items of evidence weren’t conditionally
independent, and there were multiple interacting background facts of
interest…

…well, one thing at least was certain.

If the calculation could be done at all, it was going to take a piece of
paper and a pencil.

In the fireplace at one side of the Headmaster’s office, the flames
suddenly flared up, turning from orange to bright bilious green.

“Ah!” said Professor McGonagall into the uncomfortable non-silence.
“That would be Mad-Eye Moody, I suppose.”

“Let this matter bide for now,” the Headmaster said in some relief, as
he too turned to regard the Floo. “I believe we are about to receive
some news regarding it, as well.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: Hermione Granger (April 8th, 1992, 6:53 p.m.)

Meanwhile in the Great Hall of Hogwarts, as the students who didn’t have
secret meetings with the Headmaster bustled about their dinner around
four huge tables—

“It’s funny,” Dean Thomas said thoughtfully. “I didn’t believe the
General when he said that what we learned would change us forever, and
we’d never be able to return to a normal life afterwards. Once we knew.
Once we saw what he could see.”

“I know!” said Seamus Finnigan. “I thought it was just a joke too! Like,
you know, everything else General Chaos ever said ever.”

“But now—” Dean said sadly. “We can’t go back, can we? It’d be like
going back to a Muggle school after having been to Hogwarts. We’ve just…
we’ve just got to stay around each other. That’s all we can do, or we’ll
go crazy.”

Seamus Finnigan, next to him, just nodded wordlessly and ate another
bite of veldbeest.

Around them, the conversation at the Gryffindor table continued. It
wasn’t as relentless as it’d been yesterday, but now and then the topic
wandered back.

“Well, there must’ve been some sort of love triangle,” said a
second-year witch named Samantha Crowley (she never answered when asked
if there was any relation). “The question is, which ways was it going
before it all went wrong? Who was in love with who—and whether or not
that person loved them back—I don’t know how many possibilities there
are—”

“Sixty-four,” said Sarah Varyabil, a blossoming beauty who probably
should’ve been Sorted into Ravenclaw or Hufflepuff instead. “No, wait,
that’s wrong. I mean, if nobody loved Malfoy and Malfoy didn’t love
anyone then he wouldn’t really be part of the love triangle… this is
going to take Arithmancy, could you all wait two minutes?”

“I, for one, think it perfectly clear that Granger is Potter’s moirail,
and that Potter was auspisticing between Malfoy and Granger.” The witch
who’d spoken nodded with the self-satisfaction of someone who has just
precisely nailed down a complicated issue.

“Those aren’t even words,” objected a young wizard. “You’re just making
them up as you go.”

“Sometimes you can’t describe a thing using real words.”

“It’s so sad,” said Sherice Ngaserin, who actually had tears in her
eyes. “They were just—they were just so obviously meant to be together!”

“You mean Potter and Malfoy?” said a second-year named Colleen Johnson.
“I know—their families hated each other so much, there’s no way they
couldn’t fall in love—”

“No, I mean all three of them,” said Sherice.

This produced a brief pause in the huddled conversation. Dean Thomas was
quietly choking on his lemonade, trying not to make any sounds as it
trickled out of his mouth and soaked into his shirt.

“Wow,” said a dark-haired witch by the name of Nancy Hua. “That’s
really… sophisticated of you, Sherice.”

“Look, all of you, we need to keep this realistic,” said Eloise Rosen, a
tall witch who’d been General of an army and hence spoke with an air of
authority. “We know—because she kissed him—that Granger was in love with
Potter. So the only reason she’d try to kill Malfoy is if she knew that
she was losing Potter to him. There’s no need to make it all sound so
complicated—you’re all acting like this is a play instead of real life!”

“But even if Granger was in love, it’s still funny that she’d just snap
like that,” said Chloe, whose black robes combined with her night-black
skin to make her look like a darkened silhouette. “I don’t know… I think
maybe there’s more to this than just a romance novel gone wrong. I think
maybe most people haven’t got any idea at all what’s going on.”

“Yes! Thank you!” burst out Dean Thomas. “Look—don’t you realize—like
Harry Potter told us all—if you didn’t predict that something would
happen, if it took you completely by surprise, then what you believed
about the world when you didn’t see it coming, isn’t enough to explain…”
Dean’s voice trailed off, as he saw that nobody was listening. “It’s
completely hopeless, isn’t it?”

“You hadn’t figured that out yet?” said Lavender Brown, who was sitting
across the table from her two fellow former Chaotics. “How’d you ever
make Lieutenant?”

“Oh, you two be quiet!” Sherice snapped at them. “It’s obvious you both
want the three of them for yourselves!”

“I mean it!” Chloe said. “What if what’s really going on is different
from all the, you know, normal things that all the ordinary people are
talking about? What if somebody—made Granger do what she did, just like
Potter was trying to tell everyone?”

“I think Chloe’s right,” said a foreign-looking boy wizard who always
introduced himself as ‘Adrian Turnipseed’, though his parents had
actually named him Mad Drongo. “I think this whole time there’s been…”
Adrian lowered his voice ominously, “…a hidden hand… ” Adrian raised his
voice again, “shaping all that’s happened. One person who’s been behind
everything, from the beginning. And I don’t mean Professor Snape,
either.”

“You don’t mean—” gasped Sarah.

“Yes,” Adrian said. “The real one behind it all is—Tracey Davis!”

“That’s what I think too,” Chloe said. “After all—” She glanced around
rapidly. “Ever since that thing with the bullies and the ceiling—even
the trees in the forests around Hogwarts look like they’re shaking, like
they’re afraid—”

Seamus Finnigan was frowning thoughtfully. “I think I see where Harry
gets his… you know… from,” Seamus said, lowering his voice so that only
Lavender and Dean could hear.

“Oh, I totally know what you mean,” Lavender said. She didn’t bother to
lower her own voice. “It’s a wonder he didn’t crack and just start
killing everyone ages ago.”

“Personally,” Dean said, also in a quieter voice, “I’d say the really
scary part is—that could’ve been us.”

“Yeah,” said Lavender. “It’s a good thing we’re all perfectly sane now.”

Dean and Seamus nodded solemnly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: G. L. (April 8th, 1992, 8:08 p.m.)

The Floo-Fire of the Headmaster’s office blazed a bright pale-green, the
fire concentrating in on itself into a spinning emeraldine whirlwind,
and then flared even brighter and spat a human figure into the air—

There was a blur of motion as the resolving figure snapped up a wand,
smoothly spinning with the Floo’s momentum like a ballet dance step, so
that his firing arc covered the entire 360-degree arc of the room; and
then just as abruptly, the figure stopped in place.

In the first instant that Harry saw that man, before Harry even took in
the eye, he noticed the scars on the hands, the scars on the face, like
the man had been burned and cut over his entire body; though only the
man’s hands and face were visible, of all his flesh. The rest of the
man’s body was hidden, encased not in robes, but in leather that looked
more like armour than clothing; dark-grey leather, matching the man’s
mop of greyed hair.

The next thing that Harry’s vision comprehended was the brilliant blue
eye occupying the right side of the man’s face.

One part of Harry’s mind realized that the person whom Professor
McGonagall had named ‘Mad-Eye Moody’ was the same as the one Dumbledore
had called ‘Alastor’, within the memory Dumbledore had shown Harry; an
image from before whatever event had scarred every inch of the man’s
body and taken a chunk out of his nose—

And another part of his mind noticed the jolt of adrenaline. Harry had
drawn his wand in sheer reflex when the man had spun out of the Floo
like that, there’d been something about it that felt like ambush,
Harry’s hand had already started to level his wand for a Somnium before
he’d managed to stop himself. Even now the armoured man was holding his
wand level, not pointed at any particular person but covering the whole
room, and that wand was already in perfect line with his eyes, like a
soldier sighting down a gun. There was danger in the man’s stance and
the set of his boots, danger in the leather armour he wore and danger in
that brilliant blue eye.

When the scarred man spoke, addressing the Headmaster, his voice was
edged. “I suppose you think this room is secure?”

“There are only friends here,” Dumbledore said.

The man’s head jerked toward Harry. “That include him?”

“If Harry Potter is not our friend,” Dumbledore said gravely, “then we
are all certainly doomed; so we may as well assume that he is.”

The man’s wand stayed level, not quite pointing at Harry. “Boy almost
drew on me just then.”

“Er…” Harry said. He noticed that his hand was still tightly holding the
wand, and consciously relaxed his hand and dropped it back to his side.
“Sorry about that, you looked a bit… combat-ready.”

The scarred man’s wand moved slightly away from where it had almost
pointed at Harry, though it didn’t lower, and the man let out a short
bark of laughter. “Constant vigilance, eh, lad?” said the man.

“It’s not paranoia if they really are out to get you,” Harry recited the
proverb.

The man turned fully toward Harry; and insofar as Harry could read any
expression on the scarred face, the man now looked interested.

Dumbledore’s eyes had regained some of the brilliant twinkle that they’d
had before the Azkaban breakout, a smile beneath his silver moustache as
though that smile had never left. “Harry, this is Alastor Moody, called
also Mad-Eye, who will command the Order of the Phœnix after me—if
anything should happen to me, that is. Alastor, this is Harry Potter. I
have every hope the two of you shall get along fantastically.”

“I’ve heard a good deal about you, boy,” said Mad-Eye Moody. His one
dark natural eye stayed fixed on Harry, while the point of brilliant
blue spun frantically, seeming to rotate all the way around within its
socket. “Not all of it good. Heard they’re calling you the Dementor
Spooker, in the Department.”

After some consideration, Harry decided to reply with a knowing smile.

“How’d you pull off that one, boy?” the man said softly. Now his blue
eye was fixed on Harry as well. “I had a little chat with one of the
Aurors who escorted the Dementor there from Azkaban. Beth Martin said it
came straight from the pit, and no-one gave it any special instructions
along the way. Of course, she could be lying.”

“There wasn’t any sneaky trick to that one,” Harry said. “I just did it
the hard way. Of course, I could also be lying.”

Dumbledore was leaning back in his chair, chuckling in the background,
like he was just another device in the Headmaster’s Office and that was
the sound he made.

The scarred man turned back to face the Headmaster, though his wand
stayed pointed low and in Harry’s general direction. When he spoke his
voice was gruff and businesslike. “I have a lead on a recent host of
Voldie’s. You’re certain his shade is in Hogwarts now?”

“Not certain—” Dumbledore began.

“Say what?” Harry interrupted. After having nearly concluded that the
Dark Lord didn’t exist, it was a shock to hear it being discussed that
matter-of-factly.

“Voldie’s host,” Moody said shortly. “The one he possessed before he
took over Granger.”

“If the tales speak true,” Dumbledore said, “there is some device of
power which binds Voldemort’s shade to this world; and by that means he
may bargain with a host for possession of their body, conferring on them
some portion of his power and his pride—”

“So the obvious question is who’s gained too much power too quickly,”
Moody said abruptly. “And it turns out that there’s a fellow who’s gone
and banished the Bandon Banshee, staked an entire rogue vampire clan in
Asia, tracked down the Wagga-Wagga Werewolf, and exterminated a pack of
ghouls using a tea-strainer. And he’s milking it for all it’s worth;
there’s been talk of the Order of Merlin. Seems to have turned into a
charmer and a politician, not just a powerful wizard.”

“Dear me,” murmured Dumbledore. “Are you certain that he is not relying
on his own skills?”

“Checked his grades,” Moody said. “Record shows Gilderoy Lockhart
received a Troll in his Defence O.W.L.s, didn’t bother with the N.E.W.T.
Just the sort of sucker to take the deal Voldie was offering.” The blue
eye whirled crazily within its socket. “Unless you remember Lockhart as
a student, and think he had enough potential to do all that by himself?”

“No,” said Professor McGonagall. She frowned. “Not a chance, I should
say.”

“I fear I must agree,” Dumbledore said with an undertone of pain. “Ah,
Gilderoy, you poor fool…”

Moody’s grin was more like a snarl. “Three in the morning work for you,
Albus? Lockhart should be at his home tonight.”

Harry listened to this with increasing alarm, wondering if even the
Ministry had any rules about magistrates needing to issue warrants—never
mind the illegal vigilante organization Harry now seemed to have joined.
“Excuse me,” Harry said. “What exactly happens at three in the morning?”

There must have been something in Harry’s voice that gave him away,
because the scarred man whirled on him. “You have a problem with that,
boy?”

Harry paused, trying to figure out how to phrase this to the stranger—

“You want to take him down yourself?” pressed the scarred man. “Get
revenge for your parents, eh?”

“No,” Harry said as politely he could. “Honestly—look, if we knew for
certain he was a willing host for You-Know-Who, that’s one thing, but if
we’re not sure and you’re heading off to kill him—”

“Kill?” Mad-Eye Moody snorted. “It’s what’s locked up in his head,”
Moody tapped his forehead, “that we need from him, boy. If we’re lucky,
Voldie can’t wipe the sucker’s memories as easy as in his living days,
and Lockhart will remember what the horcrux looked like.”

Harry mentally noted down the word horcrux for future research, and
said, “I’m just worried that someone innocent—what sounds like a pretty
decent person, if he did do all that himself—might be about to get
hurt.”

“Aurors hurt people,” the scarred man said shortly. “Bad people, if
you’re lucky. Some days you won’t be lucky, and that’s all there is to
it. Just remember, Dark Wizards hurt a lot more people than we do.”

Harry took a deep breath. “Can you at least try not to hurt this person,
in case he’s not—”

“What is a first-year doing in this room, Albus?” demanded the scarred
man, now whirling to face the Headmaster. “And don’t tell me it’s for
what he did when he was a baby.”

“Harry Potter is not an ordinary first-year,” the Headmaster said
quietly. “He has already accomplished feats impossible enough to shock
even me, Alastor. His is the only intellect in the Order which might
some day match that of Voldemort himself, as you or I never could.”

The scarred man leaned over the Headmaster’s desk. “He’s a liability.
Naive. Doesn’t know a bloody thing about what war’s like. I want him out
of here and all his memories of the Order wiped before one of Voldie’s
servants plucks them straight out of his mind—”

“I’m an Occlumens, actually.”

Mad-Eye Moody directed a narrow look at the Headmaster, who nodded.

And then the scarred man turned to face Harry, their gazes meeting.

The sudden fury of the Legilimency attack almost made Harry fall off his
chair, as a blade of white-hot steel cut into the imaginary person at
the forefront of his mind. Harry hadn’t had a chance to practise since
Mr Bester’s training, and Harry very nearly lost his grip on the
imaginary person the back-of-his-mind was pretending to be, as that
person’s world turned into searing lava and a furious probe of
questions. Harry almost lost his grip on only pretending to hallucinate,
only pretending to be the imaginary person that was screaming in shock
and pain as the Legilimency tore apart his sanity and reshaped him to
believe that he was on fire—

Harry managed to break eye contact, dropping his eyes to Moody’s chin.

“You’re out of practice, boy,” Moody said. Harry wasn’t looking at the
man’s face, but his voice was deadly grim. “And I’ll warn you of this
but once. Voldie isn’t like any other Legilimens in recorded history. He
doesn’t need to look you in the eyes, and if your shields are that rusty
he’d creep in so softly you’d never notice a thing.”

“Duly noted,” Harry said to the scarred chin. Harry was more shaken than
he’d have admitted; Mr Bester hadn’t been anywhere near that powerful,
and had never tested Harry like that. Pretending to be someone hurting
that much had… Harry couldn’t find words for describing what it felt
like to contain an imaginary person in that much pain, but it hadn’t
been normal. “Do I get any credit for being an Occlumens in the first
place?”

“So you’re think you’re all grown up already, eh? Look me in the eyes!”

Harry strengthened his shields, and looked once more into the dark-grey
eye and the brilliant blue.

“Ever watched someone die?” asked Mad-Eye Moody.

“My parents,” Harry said evenly. “I recovered the memory in January when
I went in front of a Dementor to learn the Patronus Charm. I remember
You-Know-Who’s voice—” A chill went through Harry’s body, his wand
twitching in his hand. “My main tactical report is that You-Know-Who
could speak the Killing Curse in less than half a second, but you
probably already knew that.”

There was a gasp from Professor McGonagall’s direction, and Severus’s
face had tightened.

“All right,” Mad-Eye Moody said softly. A strange, thin grin twisted up
the lips within the scarred face. “I’ll make you the same offer I’d make
to any trainee Auror. Land one touch on me, boy—one hit, one spell—and
I’ll concede your right to talk back to me.”

“Alastor!” exclaimed Professor McGonagall’s voice. “Surely that’s an
unreasonable test! Mr Potter, whatever his other merits, does not have a
hundred years of fighting experience!”

Harry’s eyes made a lightning dart around the room, passing over the
peculiar devices, glancing past Dumbledore and Severus and the Sorting
Hat, settling briefly here and there. Harry couldn’t see Professor
McGonagall from where he was, but that didn’t matter. There was only one
device he’d really wanted to look at, and the point of all the other
glances had just been to conceal which one.

“All righty,” Harry said, and hopped off his chair, ignoring Professor
McGonagall’s inhalation and the Potions Master’s snort of disbelief.
Dumbledore’s eyebrows had lifted, and Moody was grinning like a tiger.
“Be sure to wake me up in forty minutes if he does get me.” Harry
settled into a duellist’s starting stance, his wand held low. “Let’s go,
then—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry opened his eyes, his head feeling like it had been stuffed with
cotton wool.

Everyone else was gone from the Headmaster’s office, the Floo-Fire
dimmed; only Dumbledore still waited behind the desk.

“Hello, Harry,” the Headmaster said quietly.

“I didn’t even see him move,” Harry marvelled, muscles creaking as he
sat up.

“You were standing two paces away from Alastor Moody,” said Dumbledore,
“and you took your eye off his wand.”

Harry nodded, as he took the Cloak of Invisibility out of his pouch. “I
mean—I was taking the duelling stance so that he’d think I was a
standard idiot and underestimate me—but I have to admit, that was
impressive.”

“So you planned it all along, Harry?” Dumbledore said.

“Of course,” Harry said. “Note how I’m doing this as soon as I wake up,
rather than pausing to think of it.”

Harry drew the hood of the Cloak over his head, and glanced back up at
the wall clock he’d surreptitiously glanced at earlier.

It had then shown around twenty-three minutes after eight, and now it
was five minutes after nine.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva stared as the boy put himself into the duelling stance, his wand
held low. For a second Minerva wondered if Harry might possibly—no, that
was completely ridiculous, it was Mad-Eye Moody and that was beyond
impossible. Of course that was what she’d thought about his partial
Transfiguration, too…

“Let’s go, then,” Harry said and fell over.

Severus gave a single chuckle. “Mr Potter has his points, I must
confess,” the Potions Master said. “Though I would never say it while he
was awake, and if you repeat the words I shall deny them, for the boy’s
ego is quite large enough already. Mr Potter does have his points,
Mad-Eye, but duelling is not among them.”

Mad-Eye’s own chuckle was lower and grimmer. “Oh, yes,” said Mad-Eye.
“Only fools duel. Standing like that and waiting for me to attack, what
was the boy thinking? Why, I ought to give him a scar, to remember this
occasion—”

“Alastor!” barked Albus, just as she cried “Stop!”, Severus dashed
forward, and Mad-Eye Moody deliberately levelled his wand on Harry
Potter’s body.

“Stupefy!”

Mad-Eye’s body seemed to almost flicker as he spun on his wooden foot
like lightning, faster than she’d ever seen anyone move without magic,
the red Stunning Hex passing through the suddenly empty air and barely
missing Severus to crash into the opposite wall, and by the time her
eyes jerked back to Moody there were seventeen radiant orbs in the
pattern of a Sagitta Magica, visible for only an instant before they
streaked brilliance and struck something that fell to the floor with a
thud—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hello again, Harry,” said Dumbledore.

“I cannot believe that guy’s reaction time,” Harry said, brushing off
his Cloak as he stood up from where he’d been lying invisible on the
floor, unseen by his previous self. “I can’t believe his movement speed
either. I’m going to have to figure out some way to zap him without
speaking an incantation that gives it away…”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

—and then Mad-Eye ducked hard and fast, his hands hitting flat on the
floor. She almost didn’t see the two tiny white threads passing through
the space he’d been, but her eyes went to the blue spark when the
threads impacted on one of the Headmaster’s devices, and by the time she
managed to turn her eyes back, Mad-Eye had spun smoothly up to his feet,
his wand was dancing unseeably fast and there was another thudding
sound—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Hello again, Harry.”

“Pardon me, Headmaster, but could you let me go down your stairs, and
then come back up again, before I make the final jump backward? This is
going to take longer than one hour of preparation—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva gaped at Mad-Eye Moody, who hadn’t lowered his wand in the
slightest; and Severus had a look on his face that was almost like
shock.

“Well, boy?” said Mad-Eye Moody. “What else have you got?”

Harry Potter’s head appeared, floating in mid-air as an invisible hand
drew back the hood of his invisibility cloak.

“That eye,” said Harry Potter. There was a strange fierce light in the
boy’s eyes. “That isn’t any ordinary device. It can see right through my
invisibility cloak. You dodged my Transfigured taser as soon as I
started raising it, even though I didn’t speak any incantations. And now
that I’ve watched it again—you spotted all my Time-Turned selves the
moment you Flooed into this room, didn’t you?”

Mad-Eye Moody was smiling, the same teeth-bared grin she’d seen him wear
as they’d faced off against Voldemort himself. “Spend a hundred years
hunting Dark wizards, and you see everything,” said Moody. “I once
arrested a young Japanese who tried a similar trick. He found out the
hard way that his shadow replica technique was no match for this eye of
mine.”

“You see in all directions,” Harry Potter said, that strange fierce
light still in his gaze. “No matter where that eye is pointing, it sees
everything around you.”

Moody’s tiger-grin grew wider. “There’s no more of you in this room,
now,” Mad-Eye said. “Think that’s because you’ll give up after this
time, or because you’ll win? Any bets, boy?”

“It’s my final attempt because I decided to stake my last three hours on
one shot,” said Harry Potter. “As for whether I win—”

There was a blur filling the whole air of the Headmaster’s office.
Mad-Eye Moody leapt to one side with blinding speed and an instant later
Harry’s head darted backward as he cried “Stuporfy!”

Three shimmers in the air went past Harry’s moving head, just as a red
bolt erupted from Harry’s location, shooting past Moody as he dodged in
yet another direction—

If she’d blinked, she would have missed it, the red bolt making an
angled turn in mid-air and slamming into Moody’s ear.

Moody fell.

Harry Potter’s floating head dropped to the height of a first-year on
their hands and knees, then dropped further to the ground, his face
showing sudden exhaustion.

Minerva McGonagall said, “What in Merlin’s name just—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“So you went to Flitwick, then,” Moody said. The retired Auror was now
sitting in a chair, drinking long draughts from a restorative in a
bottle he’d taken off his belt.

Harry Potter nodded, now sitting in his own chair instead of perched on
an armrest. “I tried the Defence Professor first, but—” The boy
grimaced. “He… wasn’t available. Well, I’d decided it was worth risking
five House points, and if you say a risk is worth it, you can’t complain
when you have to pay up. Anyway, I figured that if you had an eye that
saw things other people couldn’t see, then as Isaac Asimov pointed out
in Second Foundation, the weapon to use is a brilliant light. Read
enough science fiction, you know, and you’ll read everything at least
once. Anyway, I told Professor Flitwick that I needed a Charm that would
make a huge number of shapes, bright and flickering and filling the
whole office, but invisible, so only your eye could see them. I had no
idea what it would even mean to cast an illusion and then make it
invisible, but I figured if I didn’t mention that out loud, Professor
Flitwick would just do it anyway, and he did. Turns out there was no
spell like that I could cast myself, but Flitwick Charmed me a one-time
device for it—though I had to persuade him that it wasn’t cheating,
since nothing could possibly be cheating against an Auror who’d lived
long enough to retire. And then I still didn’t see how I could hit you,
when you were moving that fast. So I asked about targeted spells, and
that was when Flitwick showed me that hex I cast at the end, the
Swerving Stunner. It’s one of Professor Flitwick’s own inventions—he’s a
champion duellist as well as a Charms Master—”

“I know that, son.”

“Sorry. Anyway, the Professor says he left the duelling circuit before
he got a chance to use that spell, since it only works as a finishing
move on an unshielded opponent. The hex gets as close to the target as
possible along its original trajectory, and then once it detects that
the target is getting more distant again, the hex turns in mid-air and
heads straight for the target. It can only swerve once—but the
incantation sounds very close to ‘Stupefy’ and the hex is the same red
colour, so if the enemy thinks it’s a regular Stunning Hex and tries a
normal dodge, that mid-air retargeting will finish them off. Oh, and the
Professor requested that none of us talk about his special move, just in
case he does get a chance to use it during competition some day.”

“But—” said Professor McGonagall. She glanced at Mad-Eye Moody, who was
nodding his approval, and at Severus, who was keeping his face decidedly
blank. “Mr Potter, you just stunned Mad-Eye Moody! The most famous Dark
wizard hunter in the history of the Auror Office! That should’ve been
impossible!”

Moody let out a dark chuckle. “What’s your answer to that one, kid? I’m
curious.”

“Well…” Harry said. “First of all, Professor McGonagall, neither of us
was fighting seriously.”

“Neither of you?”

“Of course,” Harry said. “In a serious fight, Mr Moody would’ve dropped
all my copies immediately without waiting for them to attack. And on my
side, if it was actually necessary to take down the most famous Auror in
the history of the office, I’d get Headmaster Dumbledore to do it for
me. And beyond that… since that wasn’t a real fight…” Harry paused. “How
can I put this? Wizards are used to duels where people fight back and
forth with spells for a while. But if two Muggles with guns stand in a
small room and fire bullets at each other… then whoever hits first,
wins. And if one of them is deliberately missing his shots, giving the
other person one chance after another—like Mr Moody gave me one chance
after another—well, you’d have to be pretty pathetic to lose.”

“Oh, not that pathetic,” Moody said with a slightly threatening grin.

Harry didn’t seem to notice. “You might say that Mr Moody was testing me
to see if I would try to fight him, or try to win. That is, whether I’d
carry out the role of somebody fighting—use standard spells I already
knew, even though I didn’t expect the consequences of that action to be
victory—or if I’d search through unusual plans until I found something
that could win. Like the difference between a student who sits in class
because that’s what students do, versus a student who cares enough to
ask themselves what it takes to actually learn a piece of material, and
practises however necessary—you see, Professor McGonagall? When you look
at it that way—realize that Mr Moody was giving me chances, and that I
shouldn’t attack in the first place unless I think I can win—then I
don’t come out looking so well, since it actually took me three tries to
get him. Plus, like I said, in a real fight Mr Moody could’ve turned
himself invisible, or put up shields—”

“Don’t go relying too much on shields, boy,” Mad-Eye said. The
leather-clad Auror took another sip from his restorative flask. “What
you learn in your first year at the academy doesn’t stay true forever,
not against the strongest Dark Wizards. Every shield ever made, there’s
some curse that goes straight through it, if you’re not quick enough to
cast the counter. And there’s one curse that goes through everything,
and it’s a curse any Death Eater will use.”

Harry Potter nodded gravely. “Right, some spells are impossible to
block. I’ll remember that, in case anyone casts the Killing Curse at me.
Again.”

“That kind of cleverness gets people killed, boy, and don’t you forget
it.”

A sad-sounding sigh from the Boy-Who-Lived. “I know. Sorry.”

“So, son. You had something to say about when Albus and I go after
Lockhart?”

Harry opened his mouth, then paused. “I won’t tell you how to run a
war,” the Boy-Who-Lived said eventually. “I don’t have any experience at
that. All I know is that there are consequences. Please be advised that
my own assessment is that Lockhart is probably innocent, so if you can
avoid hurting him without too much risk—” The boy shrugged. “I don’t
know the cost. Just please, if you can, be careful not to hurt him if
he’s innocent.”

“If I can,” said Moody.

“And—you’re aiming to look through his mind for evidence about the Dark
Lord, aren’t you? I don’t know what the rules are in magical Britain
about admissible evidence—but everyone’s always guilty of breaking some
law or another, there’s just too many laws. So if it’s not about the
Dark Lord, don’t turn him in to the Ministry, just Obliviate him and go,
okay?”

Moody frowned. “Son, nobody gains power that fast without being up to
something.”

“Then leave it for the ordinary Aurors, if and when they find evidence
the ordinary way. Please, Mr Moody. Call it a quirk of my Muggle
upbringing, but if it’s not about the war I don’t want us to be the evil
police who break into people’s houses in the middle of the night,
rummage through their minds and send them off to Azkaban.”

“I don’t see the sense of it, son, but I suppose I could do you the
favour.”

“Is there aught else, Alastor?” inquired Albus.

“Yes,” said Moody. “About that Defence Professor of yours—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: Gilderoy Lockhart: END

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: Dumbledore (April 9th, 1992, 5:32 p.m.)

As Professor Quirrell slowly raised up his tea, the teacup jerked in
mid-air, sending the dark translucent liquid just barely slopping over
the side, so that only three single drops crawled down the side of the
teacup. Harry would have missed it, if he hadn’t happened to be watching
closely; for Professor Quirrell’s hand was perfectly steady on the cup
before and after.

If that small jerky motion advanced to a constant tremor, it would be
the end of any non-wandless magic for the Defence Professor. Wandwork
had no room for trembling fingers. How much that would actually handicap
Professor Quirrell, if at all, Harry couldn’t guess. The Defence
Professor was certainly capable of wandless magic, yet still tended to
use a wand for larger things—but for him that might only be a
convenience…

“Insanity,” said Professor Quirrell, as he carefully sipped from his
tea—he was looking at the teacup, not at Harry, which was unusual for
him—“can be a signature all its own.”

The Defence Professor’s small office was silent, the sound-warded room
quiet in a way the Headmaster’s office never could be. Sometimes the two
of them both happened to finish exhaling or inhaling at the same time;
and then there was an auditory emptiness that was almost a sound in
itself.

“I’ll agree with that in one sense,” Harry said. “If somebody tells me
that everyone is staring at them and that their underwear is being
dusted with thought-controlling powder, I know they’re psychotic,
because that’s the standard signature of psychosis. But if you tell me
that anything confusing points to Albus Dumbledore as a suspect, that
seems… overreaching. Just because I can’t see a purpose doesn’t mean
there is no purpose.”

“Purposeless?” said Professor Quirrell. “Oh, but the madness of
Dumbledore is not that he is purposeless, but that he has too many
purposes. The Headmaster might have planned this to make Lucius Malfoy
throw away his game for vengeance on you—or it might be a dozen other
plots. Who knows what the Headmaster thinks he has reason to do, when he
has found reason to do so many strange things already?”

Harry had politely declined tea, even knowing that Professor Quirrell
would know what it meant. He’d considered bringing his own can of
soda—but had decided against that as well, after realizing how easy it
would be for the Defence Professor to teleport in a bit of potion, even
if the two of them couldn’t touch each other with direct magic.

“I have seen a little now of Dumbledore,” Harry said. “Unless everything
I have seen is a lie, I find it difficult to believe that he would plot
to send any Hogwarts student to Azkaban. Ever.”

“Ah,” the Defence Professor said softly, the tiny reflection of the
teacup gleaming in his pale eyes. “But perhaps that is another
signature, Mr Potter. You have not yet comprehended the perspective of a
man like Dumbledore. If he must, in some sufficiently noble cause,
sacrifice a student—why, who would he choose, but she who declared
herself a heroine?”

That gave Harry some pause. It might just be hindsight bias, but that
did seem to concentrate some of that hypotheses’ probability mass onto
framing Hermione in particular. Similarly, Professor Quirrell had
predicted in advance that Dumbledore might target Draco…

But if it’s you behind all of this, Professor, you might have shaped
your plans to frame the Headmaster, and taken care to cast suspicion on
him in advance.

The concept of ‘evidence’ had something of a different meaning, when you
were dealing with someone who had declared themselves to play the game
at ‘one level higher than you’.

“I see your point, Professor,” Harry said evenly, giving no hint of his
other thoughts. “So you think it most probable that it was the
Headmaster who framed Hermione?”

“Not necessarily, Mr Potter.” Professor Quirrell drained his teacup in
one swallow and then set it down, the cup making a sharp rap as it
descended. “There is also Severus Snape—though what he might think to
gain from this, I could not guess. Thus he is not my prime suspect
either.”

“Then who is?” Harry said, somewhat puzzled. Professor Quirrell surely
wasn’t about to reply ‘You-Know-Who’—

“The Aurors have a rule,” said Professor Quirrell. “Investigate the
victim. Many would-be criminals imagine that if they are the apparent
victims of a crime, they shall not be suspected. So many criminals
imagine it, indeed, that every senior Auror has seen it a dozen times
over.”

“You’re not seriously trying to convince me that Hermione—”

The Defence Professor was giving Harry one of those slit-eyed looks that
meant he was being stupid.

Draco? Draco had been interrogated under Veritaserum—but Lucius might
have had enough control to subvert Aurors to… oh.

“You think Lucius Malfoy set up his own son?” Harry said.

“Why not?” Professor Quirrell said softly. “From Mr Malfoy’s recorded
testimony, Mr Potter, I gather that you enjoyed some success in changing
Mr Malfoy’s political views. If Lucius Malfoy learned of that earlier…
he might have decided that his former heir had become a liability.”

“I don’t buy it,” Harry said flatly.

“You are being wantonly naive, Mr Potter. The history books are full of
family disputes turned murderous, for inconveniences and threats far
less than those which Mr Malfoy posed to his father. I suppose next you
will tell me that Lord Malfoy of the Death Eaters is far too gentle to
wish his son such harm.” A tinge of heavy sarcasm.

“Well, yes, frankly,” Harry said. “Love is real, Professor, a phenomenon
with observable effects. Brains are real, emotions are real, and love is
as much a part of the real world as apples and trees. If you made
experimental predictions without taking parental love into account,
you’d have a heck of a time explaining why my own parents didn’t abandon
me at an orphanage after the Incident with the Science Project.”

The Defence Professor did not react to this at all.

Harry continued. “From what Draco says, Lucius prioritized him over
important Wizengamot votes. That’s significant evidence, since there’s
less expensive ways to fake love, if you just want to fake it. And it’s
not like the prior probability of a parent loving their child is low. I
suppose it’s possible that Lucius was just taking on the role of a
loving father, and he renounced that role after he learned Draco was
consorting with Muggle-borns. But as the saying goes, Professor, one
must distinguish possibility from probability.”

“All the better the crime,” the Defence Professor said, still in that
soft tone, “if no-one would believe it of him.”

“And how would Lucius even Memory-Charm Hermione in the first place,
without setting off the wards? He’s not a Professor—oh, right, you think
it’s Professor Snape.”

“Wrong,” said the Defence Professor. “Lucius Malfoy would trust no
servant with that mission. But suppose some Hogwarts Professor,
intelligent enough to cast a well-formed Memory Charm but of no great
fighting ability, is visiting Hogsmeade. From a dark alley the
black-clad form of Malfoy steps forth—he would go in person, for
this—and speaks to her a single word.”

“Imperio.”

“Legilimens, rather,” said Professor Quirrell. “I do not know if the
Hogwarts wards would trigger for a returning Professor under the
Imperius Curse. And if I do not know, Malfoy probably does not know
either. But Malfoy is a perfect Occlumens at least; he might be able to
use Legilimency. And for the target… perhaps Aurora Sinistra; none would
question the Astronomy Professor moving about at night.”

“Or even more obviously, Professor Sprout,” said Harry. “Since she’s the
last person anyone would suspect.”

The Defence Professor hesitated minutely. “Perhaps.”

“Actually,” Harry said then, putting a thoughtful frown on his face, “I
don’t suppose you know offhand if any of the current Professors at
Hogwarts were around back when Mr Hagrid got framed in 1943?”

“Dumbledore taught Transfiguration, Kettleburn taught Magical Creatures,
and Vector taught Arithmancy,” Professor Quirrell said at once. “And I
believe that Bathsheda Babbling, now of Ancient Runes, was then a
Ravenclaw prefect. But Mr Potter, there is no reason to suppose that
anyone besides You-Know-Who was involved in that affair.”

Harry shrugged artfully. “Seemed worth asking the question, just to
check. Anyway, Professor, I agree it’s possible that some outsider
Legilimized a member of Hogwarts staff—and then Obliviated them
afterwards, there’s no way anyone would forget that part. But I don’t
think Lucius Malfoy is a probable candidate for the mastermind. It’s
possible but not probable that all of Lucius’s apparent love for Draco
was just a sense of duty, and that it all went up in a puff of smoke.
It’s possible though not probable that everything Lucius did in front of
the Wizengamot was just an act. People’s outsides do not always resemble
their insides, like you said. But there’s one piece of evidence that
doesn’t fit at all.”

“And that would be?” said the Defence Professor, his eyes half-lidded.

“Lucius tried to reject a hundred thousand Galleons for Hermione’s life.
I saw how surprised the Wizengamot was, when Lucius said he was refusing
it despite the rules of honour. The Wizengamot didn’t expect that of
him. Why wouldn’t he just take the money while acting all indignant and
pretending to grit his teeth? He wouldn’t actually care that much about
throwing Hermione into Azkaban.”

There was a pause. “Perhaps the role he was playing ran away with him,”
said Professor Quirrell. “It does happen, Mr Potter, in the heat of the
moment.”

“Perhaps,” Harry said. “But it’s still one more improbability to be
postulated—and by the time you have to add up that many excuses in a
theory, it can’t be at the top of the list any more. Anything else in
particular you think I ought to think about, within the range of all
other possibilities?”

There was a long silence. The Defence Professor’s eyes dropped down to
look at the empty teacup before them, seeming unusually distant.

“I suppose I can think of one final suspect,” the Defence Professor said
at last.

Harry nodded.

The Defence Professor didn’t seem to notice, but only spoke on. “Has the
Headmaster told you anything—even a hint—about Professor Trelawney’s
prophecy?”

“Huh?” Harry said automatically, converting his own sudden shock into
the best dissembling he could manage. It probably was at the wrong level
to fool Professor Quirrell but Harry certainly couldn’t take time to
think before replying—wait, but how on Earth would Professor Quirrell
know about that— “Professor Trelawney made a prophecy?”

“You were there to hear its beginning,” Professor Quirrell said,
frowning. “You called out to the entire school that the prophecy could
not be about you, since you were not coming here, you were already
here.”

HE IS COMING. THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY—

And that was as far as Professor Trelawney had got before Dumbledore had
grabbed her and vanished.

“Oh, that prophecy,” Harry said. “Sorry! It went clear out of my mind.”

Harry thought he’d put too much force into the end statement, and was
80%-expecting Professor Quirrell to say, Aha, now Mr Potter, what is
this mysterious other prophecy you went to such lengths to deny—

“That is foolish,” the Defence Professor said sharply, “if indeed you
are telling me the truth. Prophecies are not trivial things. I have
racked my brain much over the little that I heard, but such a small
fragment is simply too little.”

“You think the one who’s coming is the one who might’ve framed
Hermione?” said Harry. As his mind allocated yet another hypothesis,
uncertain predicate referent, he-who-is-coming.

“With no offence meant to Miss Granger,” the Defence Professor said with
another frown, “her life or death does not seem that important. But
someone was to come—one who, in your interpretation, was not already
there—and someone so significant, and unknown as a player… who knows
what else they may have done?”

Harry nodded, and mentally sighed because he was going to have to redo
his Lord Voldemort odds calculation with yet another piece of evidence
in the mix.

Professor Quirrell spoke with eyes half-lidded, looking out like through
slits. “More than the question of whom the prophecy spoke—who was meant
to hear it? It is said that fates are spoken to those with the power to
cause them or avert them. Dumbledore. Myself. You. As a distant fourth,
Severus Snape. But of those four, Dumbledore and Snape would often be in
Trelawney’s presence. You and I are the ones who would not have spent
much time around her before that Sunday. I think it quite likely that
the prophecy was meant for one of us—before Dumbledore took the
prophetess away. Did the Headmaster say nothing more to you?” Professor
Quirrell’s voice was demanding now. “I thought I heard too much force in
that denial, Mr Potter.”

“Honestly, no,” Harry said. “It had honestly slipped clear out of my
mind.”

“Then I am rather put out with him,” Professor Quirrell said softly. “In
fact, I think that I am angry.”

Harry said nothing. He didn’t even sweat. It might’ve been a poor reason
for confidence, but on this particular score, Harry did happen to be
innocent.

Professor Quirrell nodded once, sharply, as though in acknowledgement.
“If there is nothing more to say between us, Mr Potter, you may go.”

“I can think of one other suspect,” Harry said. “Someone you didn’t put
on your list at all. Would you analyse him to me, Professor?”

There was another of those moments of silence that was almost a sound in
itself.

“As for that suspect,” the Defence Professor said softly, “I think you
shall prosecute him on your own, Mr Potter, without help from me. I have
heard such requests before, and experience leads me to refuse. Either I
will do too good a job of prosecuting myself, and convince you that I am
guilty—or else you will decide that my prosecution was too half-hearted,
and that I am guilty. I will remark only this in my defence—that I would
have needed a very good reason indeed to jeopardize your fragile
alliance with the heir to House Malfoy.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: The Defence Professor (April 8th, 1992, 8:37 p.m.)

“…so I fear I must take my leave,” Dumbledore was saying gravely. “I
promised Quirinus… that is to say, I promised the Defence Professor…
that I would not make any attempt to uncover his true identity, in my
own person or any other.”

“And why’d you make a fool promise like that, then?” snapped Mad-Eye
Moody.

“It was an unalterable condition of his employment, or so he said.”
Dumbledore glanced at Professor McGonagall, a wry smile briefly flitting
over his face. “And Minerva made it clear to me that Hogwarts required a
competent Defence Professor this year, even if I had to haul Grindelwald
out of Nurmengard and prevail on old affections to persuade him to take
the position.”

“I did not quite phrase it in that fashion—”

“Your expression said it for you, my dear.”

And so soon the four of them—Harry, Professor McGonagall, the Potions
Master, and Alastor Moody aka ‘Mad-Eye’—were ensconced all by themselves
in the Headmaster’s office.

It was strange how the Headmaster’s office seemed… unbalanced… without
the Headmaster in it. If you didn’t have the ancient wizened master to
make it all seem solemn, you were just four people trying to have a
serious meeting while surrounded by bizarre, noisy gadgets. Clearly
visible from where Harry had perched himself on his chair’s arm was a
truncated-conical object, like a cone with its top snipped off, slowly
spinning around a pulsating central light which it shaded but did not
obscure; and each time the inner light pulsated, the assembly made a
vroop-vroop-vroop sound that sounded oddly distant, muffled like it was
coming from behind four solid walls, even though the
spinning-conical-section thingy was only a metre or two away.

Vroop… vroop… vroop…

And then there were the various still-breathing bodies of Harry Potter
he’d stashed in one quiet corner, cleaning up a mess that was his own in
more ways than one. (Only one body wasn’t inside a copy of the
Invisibility Cloak; but then it merely took a small effort of
concentration for Harry to perceive his other selves beneath the Cloak
of which he was master—an effort which Harry had carefully not put forth
earlier, to avoid getting advance temporal information he wanted to
determine by his own decision.) The sad thing was that by this point,
having his own body visibly lying in a corner didn’t seem all that
crazy. It was just… Hogwarts.

“All right, then,” Moody said, looking rather sour about it. From within
his leather armour, the scarred man took out a black folder. “This is a
copy of what Amelia’s people put together. She almost certainly knows
we’ve got it, but it’s all off the books, that clear? Anyway—”

And Moody told them who the Department of Magical Law Enforcement
thought ‘Quirinus Quirrell’ really was. A seemingly ordinary Hogwarts
student (though talented enough that he’d only narrowly missed being
Head Boy) who’d gone on holiday to Albania after his graduation,
disappeared, returned after 25 years, and then been caught up in the
Wizarding War—

“It was murdering the House of Monroe that made Voldie’s name,” Moody
said. “Until then, he was just another Dark Wizard with delusions of
grandeur and Bellatrix Black. But after that—” Moody snorted. “Every
fool in the country flocked to serve him. You would’ve hoped the
Wizengamot would turn serious, once they realized Voldie was willing to
kill their own sacred selves. And that’s just what the bastards did—hope
that some other bastard would turn serious. None of the cowards wanted
to step in front. It was Monroe, Crouch, Bones, and Longbottom. That was
nearly everyone in the Ministry who’d dare say a word that might give
Voldie offense.”

“That was how your House came to be ennobled, Mr Potter,” injected the
solemn voice of Professor McGonagall. “There is an ancient law that if
anyone ends a Most Ancient House, whoever avenges that blood will be
made Noble. To be sure, the House of Potter was already older than some
lines called Ancient. But yours was titled a Noble House of Britain
after the end of the war, in recognition that you had avenged the Most
Ancient House of Monroe.”

“Flush of gratitude and all that,” Mad-Eye Moody said sourly. “It didn’t
last, but at least James and Lily got a fancy title and a useless medal
to take to their graves. But that’s leaving out eight years of complete
horror after Monroe disappeared and Regulus Black—he was Monroe’s
private source in the Death Eaters, we’re pretty sure—was executed by
Voldie. Like a dam breaking and gore flooding out, drowning the whole
country. Albus bloody Dumbledore himself had to step into Monroe’s
shoes, and that was barely enough for us to survive.”

Harry listened with an odd sense of unreality. Some of it felt right,
matched up with observation—especially with the speech Professor
Quirrell had made before Christmas—and yet…

This was Professor Quirrell they were talking about.

“So that’s who the Department thinks is your Defence Professor,” Mad-Eye
Moody finished up his account. “Now what do you think, son?”

“Well…” Harry said slowly. It is also possible to have a mask behind the
mask. “The obvious next thought is that this ‘David Monroe’ person died
in the war after all, and this is just someone else pretending to be
David Monroe pretending to be Quirinus Quirrell.”

“That’s obvious?” said Professor McGonagall. “Dear Merlin…”

“Really, boy?” said Mad-Eye Moody, his blue eye spinning rapidly. “I’d
say that’s a little… paranoid.”

You don’t know Professor Quirrell, Harry did not say. “It’s an easy
theory to test,” Harry said out loud. “Just check whether the Defence
Professor remembers something about the war that the real David Monroe
would’ve known. Though I suppose, if he’s playing the part of David
Monroe pretending to be someone else, he has a good excuse to pretend
he’s pretending he doesn’t know what you’re talking about—”

“A little paranoid,” said the scarred man, his voice rising. “Not
paranoid enough! CONSTANT VIGILANCE! Think about it, lad—what if the
real David Monroe never came back from Albania?”

There was a pause.

“I see…” Harry said.

“Of course you do,” Professor McGonagall said. “Don’t mind me, please.
I’ll just sit here quietly going mad.”

“In this line of work, if you survive, you learn that there’s three
kinds of Dark Wizards,” Moody said grimly; his wand wasn’t pointed at
anyone, it was angled slightly downward, but it was in his hand. It had
never left his hand since the moment he’d entered the room. “There’s
Dark Wizards that have one name. There’s Dark Wizards that have two
names. And there’s Dark Wizards that change names like you and I change
clothes. I saw ‘Monroe’ go through three Death Eaters like he was
snapping twigs. There’s not many wizards that good at age forty-five.
Dumbledore, maybe, but not many others.”

“Perhaps that is true,” said the Potions Master from where he was
lurking. “But what of it, Mad-Eye? Whatever his identity, Monroe was
surely the Dark Lord’s enemy. I’ve heard Death Eaters curse his name
even after they thought him dead. They feared him well.”

“So far as Defence Professors are concerned,” Professor McGonagall said
primly, “I shall take it and be grateful.”

Moody swung around to glare at her. “Just where the devil was ‘Monroe’
all those years he was gone, eh? Maybe he thought he could make a name
for himself in Britain by opposing Voldie, and vanished away when he
found out he was wrong. Then why’d he come back now, hah? What’s his new
plan?”

“He, ah…” Harry ventured tentatively. “He says he always wanted to be a
great Defence Professor because all the best fighting wizards have
taught at Hogwarts. And he kind of is being an incredibly good Defence
Professor, actually… I mean, if he just wanted to keep up a disguise, he
could get away with much sloppier work…”

Professor McGonagall was nodding firmly.

“Naive,” Moody said flatly. “I suppose you haven’t wondered if your
Defence Professor set up the whole House of Monroe to be wiped out?”

“What?” cried Professor McGonagall.

“Our mystery wizard hears about a missing kid from a Most Ancient House
of Britain,” Moody said. “Steps into the shoes of ‘David Monroe’, but
stays away from the real Monroe family. But eventually the House is
bound to notice something wrong. So this imposter somehow prods Voldie
into wiping them all out—maybe leaked a password they’d given him for
their wards—and then he was a Lord of the Wizengamot!”

There seemed to be a fight going on inside Harry’s mind between
Hufflepuff One, who’d never trusted the Defence Professor in the first
place; and Hufflepuff Two, who was far too loyal to Harry’s friend,
Professor Quirrell, to believe something like that just because Moody
said so.

It is kind of obvious, though, observed his Slytherin part. I mean, do
you actually believe that under natural circumstances, anyone would end
up as the last heir to a Most Ancient House and Lord Voldemort killed
his family and he has to avenge his martial arts sensei? If anything I’d
say he went too far over the top in setting up his new identity as the
ideal literary hero. That sort of thing doesn’t happen in real life.

This from an orphan who was raised unaware of his heritage, commented
Harry’s Inner Critic. With a prophecy about him. You know, I don’t think
we’ve ever read a story about two equally destined heroes competing to
see who’s cliched enough to take down the villain—

Yes, replied the central Harry over the distant vroop-ing noise in the
background, it’s a very sad life we lead and you’re not helping.

There’s only one thing to do at this point, said Ravenclaw. And we all
know what it is, so why argue?

But, Harry replied, how do we test experimentally whether or not
Professor Quirrell is the original David Monroe? I mean, what sort of
observable behaves differently, depending on whether he’s the real David
Monroe or an impostor?

“What do you want me to do about it, Mad-Eye?” Professor McGonagall was
demanding. “I can’t—”

“You can,” the scarred man said, glaring at her fiercely. “Just fire the
bloody Defence Professor.”

“You say that every year,” said Professor McGonagall.

“Yes, and I’m always right!”

“Constant vigilance or no, Alastor, the students must be taught!”

Moody snorted. “Pfah! I swear the curse gets worse every year, as you
lot get more and more reluctant to let them go. Your precious Professor
Quirrell would have to be Grindelwald in disguise, to get himself sent
off!”

“Is he?” Harry couldn’t help asking. “I mean, could he actually be—”

“I check Grindie’s cell every two months,” Moody said. “He was there in
March.”

“Could the person in the cell be a ringer?”

“I administer a blood test for his identity, son.”

“Where do you keep the blood you use as a reference?”

“In a safe place.” Something like a smile was stretching the scarred
lips. “Have you considered the Auror Office after you graduate?”

“Alastor,” Professor McGonagall said reluctantly. “The Defence Professor
does have a… health condition. I suppose you will call it suspicious in
itself—but it is by no means certain that it will be any ill-doing on
his part which prevents us from renewing his employment.”

“Yes, his little nap times,” Moody said darkly. “Amelia thinks he
stepped into the path of a high-level curse. Sounds to me more like a
Dark ritual gone wrong!”

“You’ve no proof of that!” Professor McGonagall said.

“That man might as well be wearing a sign saying ‘Dark Wizard’ in
glowing green letters over his head.”

“Ah…” Harry said. It didn’t seem like an especially good time to ask
what Mr Moody thought of the ‘not all sacrificial rituals are evil’
standpoint. “Excuse me, but you said earlier that Professor Quirrell—I
mean the old David Monroe—I mean the Monroe from the seventies—anyway,
you said that person used the Killing Curse. What does that imply? Does
somebody have to be a Dark Wizard to use it?”

Moody shook his head. “I’ve used it myself. All it takes is power and a
certain mood.” The grimacing lips were showing teeth. “The first time I
cast it was against a wizard named Gerald Grice, and you can ask me what
he did after you graduate Hogwarts.”

“But why is it Unforgiveable, then?” Harry said. “I mean, a Cutting Hex
can kill someone too. So why’s it any better to use a Reducto instead of
Avada Kedav—”

“Shut your mouth!” Moody said sharply. “Someone might take it the wrong
way, your saying that incantation. You look too young to cast it, but
there’s such a thing as Polyjuice. And to answer your question, boy,
there’s two reasons why that spell’s in the blackest book. The first is
that the Killing Curse strikes directly at the soul, and it’ll just keep
going until it hits one. Straight through shields. Straight through
walls. There’s a reason why even Aurors fighting Death Eaters weren’t
allowed to use it before the Monroe Act.”

“Ah,” said Harry. “That does seem like an excellent reason to ban—”

“I’m not finished, son. The second reason is that the Killing Curse
doesn’t just take a powerful bit of magic. You’ve got to mean it. You’ve
got to want someone dead, and not for the greater good, either. Killing
Grice didn’t bring back Blair Roche, or Nathan Rehfuss, or David Capito.
It wasn’t for justice, or to stop him doing it again. I wanted him dead.
You understand now, lad? You don’t have to be a Dark Wizard to use that
spell—but you can’t be Albus Dumbledore, either. And if you’re arrested
for killing with it, there’s no possible defence.”

“I… see,” murmured the Boy-Who-Lived. You can’t want the person dead as
an instrumental value on the way to some positive future consequence,
you can’t cast it if you believe it’s a necessary evil, you have to
actually want them dead for the sake of being dead, as a terminal value
in your utility function. “A magically embodied preference for death
over life, striking within the plane of pure life force… that does sound
like a difficult spell to block.”

“Not difficult,” Moody snapped. “Impossible.”

Harry nodded gravely. “But David Monroe—or whoever—used the Killing
Curse against a couple of Death Eaters even before they wiped out his
family. Does that mean he already had to hate them? Like, the martial
arts story was probably true?”

Moody shook his head slightly. “One of the dark truths of the Killing
Curse, son, is that once you’ve cast it the first time, it doesn’t take
much hate to do it again.”

“It damages the mind?”

Again Moody shook his head. “No. It’s the killing that does that. Murder
tears the soul—but that’s just the same if it’s a Cutting Hex. The
Killing Curse doesn’t crack your soul. It just takes a cracked soul to
cast.” If there was a sad expression on the scarred face, it could not
be read. “But that doesn’t tell us much about Monroe. The ones like
Dumbledore who’ll never be able to cast the Curse all their lives,
because they never crack no matter what—they’re the rare ones, very
rare. It only takes a little cracking.”

There was a strange heavy feeling in Harry’s chest. He’d wondered what
exactly it had meant, that Lily Potter had tried to cast the Killing
Curse at Lord Voldemort with her last breath. But surely it was
forgiveable, it was right and proper for a mother to hate the Dark
Wizard who was coming to kill her baby, mocking her for how she couldn’t
stop him. There was something wrong with you as a parent if you couldn’t
cast Avada Kedavra, in that situation. And no other spell could’ve gone
past the Dark Lord’s shields; you’d have to at least try to hate the
Dark Lord enough to want him dead for the sake of dead, if that was the
only way to save your baby.

It only takes a little cracking…

“Enough,” said Professor McGonagall. “What would you have us do?”

Moody’s smile twisted. “Get rid of the Defence Professor and see if all
your troubles mysteriously clear up. Bet you a Galleon they do.”

Professor McGonagall looked like she was in pain. “Alastor—but—will you
teach the classes, if—”

“Ha!” said Moody. “If I ever say yes to that question, check me for
Polyjuice, because it’s not me.”

“I’ll test it experimentally,” Harry said. And then, as everyone looked
at him, “I’ll ask Professor Quirrell a question that the real David
Monroe would know—like who else was in the Slytherin class of 1945, or
something like that—hopefully without making it obvious. It won’t be
definitive proof, he could’ve studied the role, but it would be
evidence. Still, Mr Moody, even if Professor Quirrell isn’t the original
Monroe, I’m not sure that getting rid of him is a free action. He saved
my life twice—”

“What?” demanded Moody. “When? How?”

“Once when he knocked down a bunch of witches who were summoning me
toward the ground, once when he figured out that the Dementor was
draining me through my wand. And if Professor Quirrell wasn’t the one
who set up Draco Malfoy in the first place, then he saved Draco Malfoy’s
life, and things would be a lot worse if he hadn’t. If the Defence
Professor isn’t behind it all—he’s not someone we can afford to just get
rid of.”

Professor McGonagall nodded firmly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hypothesis: Severus Snape (April 8th, 1992, 9:03 p.m.)

Harry and Professor McGonagall now stood on the slowly turning stairs,
turning without descending; or at least one Harry stood upon those
stairs—his other three selves had been left behind in the Headmaster’s
office.

“Can I ask you a private question?” Harry said, when he thought they
were far enough away not to be heard. “And in particular, private from
the Headmaster.”

“Yes,” Professor McGonagall said, not quite sighing. “Though I hope you
realize that I cannot do anything which conflicts with my duties to—”

“Yes,” Harry said, “that’s exactly what I need to ask you about. In
front of the Wizengamot, when Lucius Malfoy was saying that Hermione was
no part of House Potter and that he wouldn’t take the money, you told
Hermione how to swear that oath. I want to know, if something like that
comes up again, if your first duty is to the Hogwarts student Hermione
Granger, or to the head of the Order of the Phœnix, Albus Dumbledore.”

Professor McGonagall looked like someone had hit her in the face with a
cast-iron frying-pan, a few minutes earlier, and now she’d been told
that somebody was about to do it again, and not to flinch.

Harry flinched a little himself. Somewhere along the line he needed to
pick up the knack of not phrasing things to hit as hard as he possibly
could.

The walls rotated around them, behind them, and somehow, they descended.

“Oh, Mr Potter,” Professor McGonagall said with a low exhalation. “I…
wish you wouldn’t ask me such questions… oh, Harry, I wasn’t thinking
then, not at all. I only saw a chance to help Miss Granger and… I was
Sorted into Gryffindor, after all.”

“You’ve got a chance to think now,” Harry said. It was all coming out
wrong, but he had to say it anyway, because—“I’m not asking you to be
loyal to me. But if you do know—if you are sure—what you’ll do if it
comes down to an innocent Hogwarts student versus the Order of the
Phœnix a second time…”

But Professor McGonagall shook her head. “I’m not sure,” the
Transfiguration Professor whispered. “I don’t know if it was the right
choice even then. I’m sorry. I can’t decide such awful things!”

“But you’ll do something if it happens again,” Harry said. “Indecision
is also a choice. You can’t just imagine having to make an immediate
decision?”

“No,” Professor McGonagall said, sounding a little stronger; and Harry
realized that he’d accidentally offered a way out. The Professor’s next
words confirmed Harry’s fears. “Such a dreadful choice as that,
Mr Potter—I think I should not make it until I must.”

Harry gave an internal sigh. He supposed he had no right to expect
Professor McGonagall to say anything else. In a moral dilemma where you
lost something either way, making the choice would feel bad either way,
so you could temporarily save yourself a little mental pain by refusing
to decide. At the cost of not being able to plan anything in advance,
and at the cost of incurring a huge bias toward inaction or waiting
until too late… but you couldn’t expect a witch to know all that. “All
right,” Harry said.

Though it wasn’t right at all, not really. Dumbledore might want that
debt removed, Professor Quirrell would also want Harry out of that debt.
And if the Defence Professor was David Monroe, or could convincingly
appear to be David Monroe, then Lord Voldemort technically hadn’t
exterminated the House of Monroe. In which case somebody might be able
to pass a Wizengamot resolution revoking the Noble status of House
Potter, which had been granted for avenging the Most Ancient House of
Monroe.

In which case Hermione’s vow of service to a Noble House might be null
and void.

Or maybe not. Harry didn’t know anything about the legalities,
especially not whether House Potter got the money back if someone
managed to send Hermione to Azkaban. Just because you lost something
might not mean the payment was returned, legally speaking. Harry wasn’t
sure and he didn’t dare ask a magical solicitor…

…it would have been nice to be able to trust at least one adult to take
Hermione’s side instead of Dumbledore’s, if an issue like that
threatened to come up.

The stairs they were upon ceased rotating, and they were before the
backs of the great stone gargoyles, which rumbled aside, revealing the
hallway.

Harry stepped out—

A hand caught at Harry’s shoulder.

“Mr Potter,” Professor McGonagall said in a low voice, “why did you tell
me to keep watch over Professor Snape?”

Harry turned around again.

“You told me to keep watch, and see if he’d changed,” Professor
McGonagall went on, her tone urgent. “Why did you say that, Mr Potter?”

It took a moment, at this point, for Harry to think back and remember
why he had said that. Harry and Neville had rescued Lesath Lestrange
from bullies, and then Harry had confronted Severus in the hallway and,
at least according to the Potions Master’s own words, ‘almost died’—

“I learned something that made me worry,” Harry said after a moment.
“From someone who made me promise not to tell anyone else.” Severus had
made Harry swear that their conversations wouldn’t be shared with
anyone, and Harry was still bound by it.

“Mr Potter—” began Professor McGonagall, and then exhaled, the flash of
sharpness disappearing as quickly as it had come. “Never mind. If you
cannot say, you cannot say.”

“Why do you ask?” Harry said.

Professor McGonagall seemed to hesitate—

“All right, let me be more specific,” Harry said. After Professor
Quirrell had done it to him several times, Harry was starting to get the
hang of it. “What change have you already observed in Professor Snape
that you’re trying to decide whether to tell me about?”

“Harry—” the Transfiguration Professor said, and then closed her mouth.

“I obviously know something you don’t,” Harry said helpfully. “See, this
is why we can’t always put off trying to decide our awful moral
dilemmas.”

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes, drew in a deep breath, pinched the
bridge of her nose and squeezed it several times. “All right,” she said.
“It’s a subtle thing… but worrying. How can I put this… Mr Potter, have
you read many books that young children are not meant to read?”

“I’ve read all of them.”

“Of course you have. Well… I don’t quite understand it myself, but for
so long as Severus has been employed in this school, stalking about in
that awful stained cloak, there has been a certain sort of girl that
stares at him with longing eyes—”

“You say that like it’s a bad thing?” Harry said. “I mean, if there’s
one thing I did understand from those books, it’s that you’re not
supposed to question people’s preferences.”

Professor McGonagall gave Harry a very strange look.

“I mean,” Harry said again, “from what I’ve read, when I’m a bit older
there’s something like a 10% chance that I’ll find Professor Snape
attractive, and the important thing is for me to just accept whatever
I—”

“In any case, Mr Potter, Severus has always been entirely indifferent to
the stares of those young girls. But now—” Professor McGonagall seemed
to realize something, and hastily said, her hands rising in warding,
“Please don’t mistake me, Professor Snape certainly has not taken
advantage of any young witches! Absolutely not! He has never even so
much as smiled at one, not that I ever heard. He has told the young
girls to stop gaping at him. And if they stare at him regardless, he
looks away. That I have seen with my own eyes.”

“Er…” Harry said. “Sorry, but just because I’ve read those books doesn’t
mean I understood them. What does all that mean?”

“That he is noticing,” Professor McGonagall said in a low voice. “It is
a subtle thing, but now that I have seen it, I am certain. And that
means… I am very much afraid… that the bond which held Severus to
Albus’s cause… may have weakened, or even broken.”

2 + 2=…

“Snape and Dumbledore?” Then Harry heard the words that had just come
out of his mouth, and hastily added, “Not that there’s anything wrong
with that—”

“No!” said Professor McGonagall. “Oh, for pity’s sake—I can’t explain it
to you, Mr Potter!”

The other shoe finally dropped.

He was still in love with my mother?

This seemed somewhere between beautifully sad, and pathetic, for around
five seconds before the third shoe dropped.

Of course, that was before I gave him my helpful relationship advice.

“I see,” Harry said carefully after a few moments. There were times when
saying ‘Oops’ didn’t fully cover it. “You’re right, that’s not a good
sign.”

Professor McGonagall put both hands over her face. “Whatever you’re
thinking right now,” she said in a slightly muffled voice, “which I
assure you is also wrong, I don’t want to hear about it, ever.”

“So…” Harry said. “If, like you said, the bond that held Professor Snape
to the Headmaster has broken… what would he do then?”

There was a long silence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

What would he do then?

Minerva lowered her hands, gazing down at the upturned face of the
Boy-Who-Lived. One simple question shouldn’t have caused her so much
dismay. She’d known Severus for years; the two of them bound, in some
strange way, by the prophecy they’d both heard. Though Minerva
suspected, from what she knew of the rules of prophecy, that she had
only overheard it herself. It had been Severus’s acts which had brought
about the prophecy’s fulfilment. And the guilt, the heartbreak which had
come of that choice, had been tormenting the Potions Master for years.
She couldn’t imagine who Severus would be without it. Her mind went
blank, trying to imagine; her thoughts an empty parchment.

Surely Severus was no longer the man he’d once been, that angry and
terribly foolish young man who’d brought the prophecy before Voldemort
in exchange for being admitted into the Death Eaters. She’d known him
for years, and surely Severus was no longer that man…

Did she really know him at all?

Had anyone ever seen the real Severus Snape?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“I don’t know,” Professor McGonagall finally said. “I truly don’t know
at all. I can’t even imagine. Do you know anything of this, Mr Potter?”

“Er…” Harry said. “I think I can say that my own evidence points in the
same direction as yours. I mean, it increases the probability that
Professor Snape isn’t in love with my mother any more.”

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes. “I give up.”

“I don’t know of anything wrong he’s done apart from that, though,”
Harry added. “I assume the Headmaster cleared you to ask me about this?”

Professor McGonagall looked away from him, staring at the wall. “Please
don’t, Harry.”

“All right,” Harry said, and turned and hurried out into the hallways,
hearing Professor McGonagall more slowly walking after, and the rumbling
sound of the gargoyles moving into place.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was the morning after next, during Potions class, that Harry’s potion
of cold resistance boiled over his cauldron with a green froth and
mildly nauseating smell, and Professor Snape, looking more resigned than
disgusted, told Harry to stay after class. Harry had his own suspicions
about this affair, and as soon as class let out—Hermione, as usual for
the last few days, being the first to flee out the door—the door swung
shut and locked behind the departing students.

“I apologize for ruining your potion, Mr Potter,” Severus Snape said
quietly. There was upon his face the strange sad look that Harry had
seen only once before, in a hallway some time ago. “It will not be
reflected in your grades. Please, sit down.”

Harry sat back down at his desk, filling up the time by scrubbing a bit
more at the green stain on the wooden surface, as the Potions Master
incanted a few privacy spells.

When the Potions Master was done, he spoke again. “I… do not know how to
broach this topic, Mr Potter, so I will simply say it… before the
Dementor, you recovered your memory of the night your parents died?”

Harry silently nodded.

“If… I know it must not be a pleasant memory, but… if you could tell me
what happened…?”

“Why?” Harry said. His voice was solemn, definitely not mocking the
pleading look that Harry had never expected to see from that person. “I
wouldn’t think that would be a pleasant thing for you to hear either,
Professor—”

The Potions Master’s voice was almost a whisper. “I have imagined it
every night these last ten years.”

You know, said Harry’s Slytherin side, it might not be such a good idea
to give him closure, if his guilt-based loyalties are already wavering—

Shut up. Overruled.

It wasn’t something that Harry could actually bring himself to deny. He
took one suggestion from his Slytherin side, and that was it.

“Will you tell me exactly how you came to learn about the Prophecy?”
Harry said. “I’m sorry to make this a trade, I will tell you afterwards,
only, it could be really important—”

“There is little to say. I had come to be interviewed by the Deputy
Headmistress for the position of Potions Master, and so I was waiting
outside the room of the Hog’s Head Inn when the applicant before me,
Sybill Trelawney, came to seek the position of Professor of Divination.
As soon as Trelawney finished speaking her words, I fled, forsaking my
chance at Hogwarts’s Mastery, and went to the Dark Lord.” The Potions
Master’s face was drawn and tight. “I did not even pause to consider why
that riddle might have come to me, before I sold it to another.”

“A job interview?” Harry said. “Where you and Professor Trelawney both
happened to be applying, and Professor McGonagall was interviewing? That
seems… like rather a large coincidence…”

“Seers are the pawns of time, Mr Potter. Coincidence is beneath them,
and they are above it. I was the one meant to hear that prophecy and
become its fool. Minerva’s presence made no final difference to how it
came about. There was no Memory Charm as you supposed, I do not know why
you thought that, but there was no Memory Charm, there could have been
no Memory Charm. The voice of a seer has a quality, an enigma which even
Legilimency cannot share, how could that be imbued in a false memory? Do
you think the Dark Lord would believe my mere words? The Dark Lord
seized my mind and saw the mystification there, even if he could not
seize the mystery, and so he knew the prophecy had been true. The Dark
Lord could have killed me then, having taken what he wanted—I was a fool
indeed to go to him—but he saw something in me I do not know, and took
me into the Death Eaters, though on his terms rather than mine. That is
how I brought it about, brought it all about, from beginning to end,
always my own doing.” Severus’s voice had gone rather hoarse, and his
face was filled with naked pain. “Now tell me, please, how did Lily
die?”

Harry swallowed twice, and began his recounting.

“James Potter shouted for Lily to run away with me, that he would hold
off You-Know-Who.”

“You-Know-Who said—” Harry stopped, the chills going all over his own
skin, his own muscles tightening as if in preparing for a seizure. The
memory was returning strongly, now, accompanied by cold and darkness in
association. “He used… the Killing Curse… and then he came upstairs
somehow, I think he must have flown, I don’t remember any footsteps on
stairs or anything like that… and then my mother said, ‘No, not Harry,
please not Harry!’ or something like that. And the Dark Lord—his voice
was so high, like water whistling out of a kettle only cold—the Dark
Lord said—”

Stand aside, woman! For you I am not come, only the boy.

The words were very clear in Harry’s memory.

“—he told my mother to get out of his way, that he was only there for
me, and my mother begged him to have mercy, and the Dark Lord said—”

I give you this rare chance to flee.

“—that he was being generous and giving her a chance to run, but he
wouldn’t bother fighting her, and even if she died, she couldn’t save
me—” Harry’s voice was unsteady, “—and so she ought to get out of his
way. And that was when my mother begged the Dark Lord to take her life
instead of mine—and the Dark Lord—the Dark Lord said to her—and his
voice was lower this time, like he was dropping a pose—”

Very well, I accept the bargain.

“—he said that he accepted her offer, and that she should drop her wand
so he could kill her. And then the Dark Lord waited, just waited. I, I
don’t know what Lily Potter was thinking, it hadn’t even made sense in
the first place, what she said, it wasn’t like the Dark Lord would kill
her and then just leave, when he’d come there for me. Lily Potter didn’t
say anything, and then the Dark Lord started laughing at her and it was
horrible and—and she finally tried the only thing left that wasn’t
abandoning me or just giving up and dying. I don’t know if she even
could’ve, if the spell would’ve worked for her, but when you think
about, she had to try. The last thing my mother said was ‘Avada Ke-’ but
the Dark Lord started his own curse as soon as she said ‘Av’ and he said
it in less than half a second and there was a flash of green light and
then—and then—and then—”

“That’s enough.”

Slowly, like a body floating to the surface of water, Harry returned
from wherever he’d been.

“That’s enough,” the Potions Master said hoarsely. “She died… Lily died
without pain, then? The Dark Lord… did not do anything to her, before
she died?”

She died thinking that she’d failed, and that the Dark Lord was going to
kill her baby next. That’s pain.

“He—the Dark Lord didn’t torture her—” Harry said. “If that’s what
you’re asking.”

Behind Harry, the door unlocked itself and swung open.

Harry left.

It was Friday, April 10th, of 1992.

87. Hedonic Awareness

Thursday, April 16th, 1992

THE school was almost deserted now, nine-tenths of the students having
gone home for the Easter holiday, just about everyone she knew missing.
Susan had stayed behind, her grand-aunt being quite busy, as had Ron for
reasons she didn’t know—maybe the Weasley family was poor enough that
feeding all the children for an extra week would’ve been a noticeable
strain? It all worked out well enough, since Ron and Susan were just
about the only ones left who’d still talk to her. (At least that she
wanted to talk back to. Lavender was still nice to her, and Tracey was,
um, Tracey, but neither of them were quite relaxing to spend a free hour
around; and in any case, neither of those two had stayed over for the
Easter hols.)

If she couldn’t go home—and she wasn’t allowed to go home, her parents
had been lied to and told she’d had Glowpox—then an almost-empty
Hogwarts was the next best thing.

She could even visit the library without people staring at her, since
there were no lessons and nobody was trying to do schoolwork.

It would be a mistake to think that Hermione drooped about the corridors
weeping all day long. Oh, she’d cried a lot the first two days, of
course, but two days had been enough. There were parts of Harry’s
borrowed books about that, how even people who were paralysed in car
accidents weren’t nearly as unhappy as they’d expected to be, six months
later, just like lottery winners weren’t nearly as happy as they’d
expected. People adjusted, their happiness levels went back to their
happiness set point, life went on.

A shadow fell over where Hermione was reading her current book and she
whirled around, the wand hidden on her lap coming up to point directly
at the surprised face of—

“Sorry!” Harry Potter said, hastily holding up his palms to show his
left hand empty, and his right hand holding a small red-velvet pouch.
“Sorry. Didn’t mean to startle you.”

There was an awful silence, her heartbeat increasing and her palms
starting to sweat as Harry Potter just looked at her. She’d almost
talked to him, on the first morning of the rest of her life; but when
she’d come down to breakfast Harry Potter had looked so awful—so she
hadn’t sat down beside him at the breakfast table, just quietly eaten in
her own little bubble of nobody else sitting next to her, and it had
been horrible, but Harry hadn’t come to her, and… she just hadn’t talked
to him, since then. (It wasn’t hard to avoid everyone, if you stayed out
of the Ravenclaw common room, and ran out of classes before anyone could
talk to you.)

And ever since she’d been wondering what Harry thought of her now—if he
hated her for having lost all his money—or if he really was in love with
her and that’s why he’d done it—or if he’d given up on her keeping pace
with him because she couldn’t frighten Dementors—she couldn’t face him
now, she just couldn’t, she spent sleepless nights worrying what Harry
thought of her now, and she was afraid, and she’d been avoiding the boy
who’d spent all his money to save her, and she was a horrible ungrateful
wretch, and a terrible person and—

Then her eyes glanced down to see that Harry was reaching into the
red-velvet pouch and taking out a heart-shaped red-foil-wrapped sweet,
and her brain melted down like chocolate left out in the sun.

“I was going to give you more space,” said Harry Potter, “only I was
reading up on Critch’s theories about hedonics and how to train your
inner pigeon and how small immediate positive and negative feedbacks
secretly control most of what we actually do, and it occurred to me that
you might be avoiding me because seeing me made you think of things that
felt like negative associations, and I really didn’t want to let that
run any longer without doing something about it, so I got hold of a bag
of chocolates from the Weasley twins and I’m just going to give you one
every time you see me as a positive reinforcement if that’s all right
with you—”

“Breathe, Harry,” Hermione said without thinking about it.

It was the first word she’d spoken to him since the day of the trial.

The two of them stared at each other.

The books stared at them from the surrounding shelves.

They stared some more at each other.

“You’re supposed to eat the chocolate,” Harry said, holding out the
heart-shaped sweet like a Valentine. “Unless just being given a
chocolate feels good enough to count as a positive reinforcement, in
which case you probably need to put it in your pocket or something.”

She knew that if she tried speaking again she’d fail, so she didn’t try.

Harry’s head slumped a bit. “Do you hate me now?”

“No!” she said. “No, you shouldn’t think that, Harry! Just—just—just
everything!” She realized that her wand was still pointed at Harry, and
she lowered it. She was trying very hard not to burst out into tears.
“Everything!” she repeated, and couldn’t find any better to say than
that, although she was certain that Harry wanted to tell her to be
specific.

“I think I understand,” Harry said cautiously. “What’re you reading?”

Before she could stop him, them, Harry bent over the library desk to see
the book she was reading, leaning his head forward before she could
think to grab the book away—

Harry stared at the open page.

“The World’s Wealthiest Wizards and How They Got That Way,” Harry read
off the book’s title from the top. “Number sixty-five, Sir Gareth, owner
of a transportation company that won the 19th-century shipping wars…
monopoly on oh-tee-threes… I see.”

“I s’pose you’re going to tell me that I don’t need to worry about
anything and you’ll take care of it all?” It came out sounding harsher
than she would’ve wanted, and she felt another stab of guilt for being
such a terrible person.

“Nah,” Harry said, sounding oddly cheerful. “I can put myself in your
shoes well enough to know that if you paid a bunch of money to save me,
I’d be trying to pay it back. I’d know it was silly on some level, and
I’d still be trying to pay it back all by myself. There’s no way I
wouldn’t understand that, Hermione.”

Hermione’s face screwed up and she felt moisture in the corners of her
eyes.

“Fair warning, though,” Harry went on, “I might solve the debt to Lucius
Malfoy myself if I see a way before you do, it’s more important to get
that sorted immediately than which one of us gets it sorted. Anything
interesting so far?”

Three-quarters of her was running in circles and smashing into trees as
she tried to figure out the implications of everything Harry had just
said (did he still respect her as a heroine? or did that mean he thought
she couldn’t do it on her own?) and meanwhile a much more sensible part
of Hermione flipped back the book to page 37 which had the most
promising entry she’d seen so far (though in her imagination she always
did it on her own and took Harry completely by surprise)—

“I thought this seemed quite interesting,” her voice said.

“Number fourteen, ‘Crozier’, true name unknown,” Harry read. “Wow, that
is… that is the gaudiest chequered top hat I’ve ever seen. Wealth, at
least six hundred thousand Galleons… so around thirty million pounds,
not enough to make a Muggle famous, but good enough for the smaller
wizard population, I guess. Rumoured to be a modern alias of the
six-century-old Nicholas Flamel, the only known wizard to succeed at the
incredibly difficult alchemical procedure for creating the Philosopher’s
Stone, which enables the transmutation of base metals into gold or
silver as well as… the Elixir of Life which indefinitely prolongs the
youth and health of the user…. Um, Hermione, this seems obviously
false.”

“I’ve read more references to Nicholas Flamel,” Hermione said. “The Rise
and Fall of the Dark Arts says he secretly trained Dumbledore to stand
up to Grindelwald. There’s a lot of books that take the story seriously,
not just this one… you think it’s too good to be true?”

“No, of course not,” said Harry. Harry pulled out the chair next to her
own, at the small table, and sat down beside her in his accustomed place
on her right, just like he’d never left; she had to choke back a catch
in her throat. “The idea of ‘too good to be true’ isn’t causal
reasoning, the universe doesn’t check if the output of the equations is
‘too good’ or ‘too bad’ before allowing it. People used to think that
æroplanes and smallpox vaccines were too good to be true. Muggles have
figured out ways to travel to other stars without even using magic, and
you and I can use our wands to do things that Muggle physicists think
are literally impossible. I can’t even imagine what we could rule out
the real laws of magic being able to do.”

“So what’s the problem, then?” Hermione said. Her voice sounded more
normal now, in her own ears.

“Well…” Harry said. The boy reached over her own outstretched arm, his
robes brushing hers, and tapped the artist’s illustration of an
ominously glowing red stone dripping scarlet liquid. “Problem one is
that there’s no logical reason why the same artefact would be able to
transmute lead to gold and produce an elixir that kept someone young. I
wonder if there’s an official name for that in the literature? Like the
‘turned up to eleven effect’, maybe? If everyone can see a flower, you
can’t get away with saying flowers are the size of houses. But if you’re
in a flying saucer cult, since nobody can see the alien mothership
anyway, you can say it’s the size of a city, or the size of the Moon.
Observable things have to be constrained by evidence, but when somebody
makes up a story, they can make the story as extreme as they want. So
the Philosopher’s Stone gives you unlimited gold and eternal life, not
because there’s a single magical discovery that would produce both of
those effects, but because someone made up a story about a super happy
thingy.”

“Harry, there’s a lot of things in magic that aren’t sensible,” she
said.

“Granted,” said Harry. “But Hermione, problem two is that not even
wizards are crazy enough to casually overlook the implications of this.
Everyone would be trying to rediscover the formula for the Philosopher’s
Stone, whole countries would be trying to capture the immortal wizard
and get the secret out of him—”

“It’s not a secret.” Hermione flipped the page, showing Harry the
diagrams. “The instructions are right on the next page. It’s just so
difficult that only Nicholas Flamel’s done it.”

“So entire countries would be trying to kidnap Flamel and force him to
make more Stones. Come on, Hermione, even wizards wouldn’t hear about
immortality and, and,” Harry Potter paused, his eloquence apparently
failing him, “and just keep going. Humans are crazy, but they’re not
that crazy!”

“Not everyone thinks the same way you do, Harry.” He did have a point,
but… how many different references had she come across to Nicholas
Flamel? Besides World’s Wealthiest Wizards and Rise and Fall of the Dark
Arts, there’d also been Stories of Moderately Ancient Times and
Biographies of the Justly Famous…

“All right then, Professor Quirrell would’ve kidnapped this Flamel guy.
It’s what an evil person or a good person or just a selfish person would
do if they had any sense. The Defence Professor knows a lot of secrets
and he wouldn’t miss that one.” Harry sighed and looked up; she followed
his gaze, but he was apparently just looking at the larger library, the
rows and rows and rows of bookcases. “I don’t mean to mess with your
project,” said Harry, “and I certainly don’t mean to discourage you,
but… Honestly, Hermione, I’m not sure you’re going to find any good
ideas for making money in a book like this. Like the old joke about how
if an economist sees a twenty-pound note lying in the street, they won’t
bother picking it up, because if it were real, someone else would’ve
picked it up already. Any way of making lots of money that everyone
knows about to the point where it’s in books like this… you see what I’m
saying? It can’t be possible for everyone to make a thousand Galleons a
month in three easy steps, or everyone would be doing it.”

“So? That wouldn’t stop you,” Hermione said, her voice now roughening
again. “You do impossible things all the time, I bet you’ve done
something impossible in the last week and you didn’t bother telling
anyone.”

(There was a slight pause, which, if Miss Granger had known, was exactly
the length of pause you’d make if you’d fought Mad-Eye Moody and won
exactly eight days earlier.)

“Not in the last seven days, no,” Harry said. “Look… part of the trick
of doing the impossible is being selective about which impossibilities
you challenge, and only trying when you have a special advantage. If
there’s a money-making method in this book that sounds difficult for a
wizard, but it’s easy if we can use Dad’s old Mac Plus, then we’d have a
plan.”

“I know that, Harry,” Hermione said, her voice wavering only slightly.
“I was looking to see if there was anything here I could figure out how
to do. I thought, maybe the difficult part about making a Philosopher’s
Stone was that the alchemical circle had to be super precise, and I
could get it right by using a Muggle microscope—”

“That’s brilliant, Hermione!” The boy rapidly drew his wand, said
“Quietus,” and then continued after the small noises of the rowdier
books had died down. “Even if the Philosopher’s Stone is just a myth,
the same trick might work for other difficult alchemies—”

“Well, it can’t work,” Hermione said. She’d flown across the library to
look up the only book on alchemy that wasn’t in the Restricted Section.
And then—she remembered the crushing let-down, all the sudden hope
dissipating like mist. “Because all alchemical circles have to be drawn
‘to the fineness of a child’s hair’, it isn’t any finer for some
alchemies than others. And wizards have Omnioculars, and I haven’t heard
of any spells where you use Omnioculars to magnify things and do them
exactly. I should’ve realized that!”

“Hermione,” Harry said seriously, as he started to dig down into the
red-velvet pouch again, “don’t punish yourself when a bright idea
doesn’t work out. You’ve got to go through a lot of flawed ideas to find
one that might work. And if you send your brain negative feedback by
frowning when you think of a flawed idea, instead of realizing that
idea-suggesting is good behaviour by your brain to be encouraged, pretty
soon you won’t think of any ideas at all.” Harry put down two
heart-shaped chocolates beside the book. “Here, have another chocolate.
Besides the one from earlier, I mean. This one is to reinforce your
brain for generating a good candidate strategy.”

“I suppose you’re right,” Hermione said in a small voice, but she didn’t
touch the chocolate. She started to turn the pages back to 167, where
she’d been reading before Harry had come in.

(Hermione Granger did not require bookmarks, of course.)

Harry was leaning over slightly, his head almost touching her shoulder,
watching the pages as she turned them, as though he might be able to
glean valuable information from glimpsing the page for only a
quarter-second. Breakfast hadn’t been long ago, and she could clearly
identify, from the faint scent of his breath, that Harry’d eaten banana
pudding for dessert.

Harry spoke again. “So with all that said… and please take this as a
positive reinforcement… did you really try to invent a way to
mass-produce immortality so that I could pay off my debt to Lucius
Malfoy?”

“Yes,” she said in an even smaller voice. Even when she tried to think
like Harry, it seemed she hadn’t yet got the knack of it. “So what’ve
you been doing this whole time, Harry?”

Harry made a disgusted face. “Trying to collect evidence on the whole
‘Who Framed Hermione Granger’ mystery.”

“I…” Hermione looked up at Harry. “Shouldn’t I… be trying to solve my
own mystery, though?” It hadn’t been her first thought, her first
priority, but now that Harry mentioned it…

“That wouldn’t work in this case,” Harry said soberly. “There’s too many
people who’ll talk to me and not you… and I’m also sorry to say that
some of them made me promise not to talk to anyone else. Sorry, I don’t
think you can help much on this one.”

“Okay, I guess,” Hermione said leadenly. “Fine. You do everything. You
gather all the clues and talk to all the suspects while I just sit here
in the library. Let me know after it turns out that it was Professor
Quirrell who did it.”

“Hermione…” Harry said. “Why is it so important who does what? Shouldn’t
it be more important to get everything solved, than who solves it?”

“I guess you’re right,” Hermione said. She lifted her hands to press up
at her eyes. “I guess it doesn’t matter any more. Everyone’s going to
think—I know it’s not your fault, Harry, you were—you were being Good,
you were a perfect gentleman—but no matter what I do now, they’ll all
think that I’m just—someone for you to rescue.” She paused, and said,
with her voice quivering, “And maybe they’re right, Harry.”

“Whoa, whoa, hold on there a second—”

“I can’t scare Dementors. I can get Outstandings in Charms class, but I
can’t scare Dementors.”

“I’ve got a mysterious dark side!” Harry hissed, after his head turned
around to scan the library. (There was one boy in a distant corner, who
did look in their direction occasionally, but he would’ve been too far
away to hear anything even without the Quieting Barrier.) “I’ve got a
dark side that definitely isn’t a child, and who knows what other crazy
magical stuff going on in my head—Professor Quirrell claimed that I
become whoever I believe I am—that’s all cheating, don’t you see,
Hermione? There’s an arrangement that the school administration made
that I’m not supposed to talk about, so that the Boy-Who-Lived could
have more time to study every day, I’m cheating and you’re still beating
me in Charms class. I’m—I’m probably not—the Boy-Who-Lived probably
isn’t even something that you could properly call a child—and you’re
still competing with that. Don’t you realize, if it wasn’t for people
paying attention to me, you’d look like the most powerful witch to come
along in a century? When you can fight three older bullies by yourself,
and win?”

“I don’t know,” she said, pressing her hands again over her eyes, with
her voice wavering. “All I know is—even if that’s all true—nobody’s ever
going to see me for myself any more, ever.”

“All right,” Harry said after a while. “I see what you mean. Instead of
the famous Potter-and-Granger research team, there’ll be Harry Potter
and his lab assistant. Um… here’s an idea. How about if I don’t focus on
making money for a while? I mean, the debt doesn’t come due until I
graduate Hogwarts. So you can do it yourself and show the world you’ve
still got it. And if you coincidentally crack the secret of immortality
along the way, we’ll just call it a bonus.”

The thought of Harry relying on her to come up with a solution seemed…
like a crushing burden of responsibility to dump on a poor traumatized
twelve-year-old girl, and she wanted to hug him for offering her a way
to restore her self-respect as a heroine, and it was what she deserved
for being a horrible person and speaking sharply to Harry all the time,
when all along he’d been a truer friend to her than she’d ever been to
him, and it was good that he still thought she could do things, and…

“Is there some amazing rational thing you do when your mind’s running in
all different directions?” she managed.

“My own approach is usually to identify the different desires, give them
names, conceive of them as separate individuals, and let them argue it
out inside my head. So far the main persistent ones are my Hufflepuff,
Ravenclaw, Gryffindor, and Slytherin sides, my Inner Critic, and my
simulated copies of you, Neville, Draco, Professor McGonagall, Professor
Flitwick, Professor Quirrell, Dad, Mum, Richard Feynman, and Douglas
Hofstadter.”

Hermione considered trying this before her Common Sense warned that it
might be a dangerous sort of thing to pretend. “There’s a copy of me
inside your head?”

“Of course there is!” Harry said. The boy suddenly looked a bit more
vulnerable. “You mean there isn’t a copy of me living in your head?”

There was, she realized; and not only that, it talked in Harry’s exact
voice.

“It’s rather unnerving now that I think about it,” said Hermione. “I do
have a copy of you living in my head. It’s talking to me right now using
your voice, arguing how this is perfectly normal.”

“Good,” Harry said seriously. “I mean, I don’t see how people could be
friends without that.”

She continued reading her book, then, Harry seeming content to watch the
pages over her shoulder.

She’d got all the way to number seventy, Katherine Scott, who’d
apparently invented a way to turn small animals into lemon tarts, when
she finally worked up the courage to speak.

“Harry?” she said. (She was leaning a bit away from him now, though she
didn’t realize it.) “If there’s a copy of Draco Malfoy in your head,
does that mean you’re friends with Draco Malfoy?”

“Well…” Harry said. He sighed. “Yeah, I’d been meaning to talk with you
about this anyway. I kind of wish I’d talked to you sooner. Anyway, how
can I put this… I was corrupting him?”

“What do you mean corrupting?”

“Tempting him to the Light Side of the Force.”

Her mouth just stayed open.

“You know, like the Emperor and Darth Vader, only in reverse.”

“Draco Malfoy,” she said. “Harry, do you have any idea—”

“Yes.”

“—the sort of things Malfoy has been saying about me? What he said he’d
do to me, as soon as he got the chance? I don’t know what he told you,
but Daphne Greengrass told me what Malfoy says when he’s in Slytherin.
It’s unspeakable, Harry! It’s unspeakable in the completely literal
sense that I can’t say it out loud!”

“When was this?” Harry said. “At the start of the year? Did Daphne say
when this was?”

“No,” Hermione said. “Because it doesn’t matter when, Harry. Anyone who
said things—like Malfoy said—they can’t be a good person. It doesn’t
matter what you tempted him to, he’s still a rotten person, because no
matter what a good person would never—”

“You’re wrong.” Harry said, looking her straight in the eyes. “I can
guess what Draco threatened to do to you, because the second time I met
him, he talked about doing it to a ten-year-old girl. But don’t you see,
on the day Draco Malfoy arrived in Hogwarts, he’d spent his whole
previous life being raised by Death Eaters. It would’ve required a
supernatural intervention for him to have your morality given his
environment—”

Hermione was shaking her head violently. “No, Harry. Nobody has to tell
you that hurting people is wrong, it’s not something you don’t do
because the teacher says it’s not allowed, it’s something you don’t do
because—because you can see when people are hurting, don’t you know
that, Harry?” Her voice was shaking now. “That’s not—that’s not a rule
people follow like the rules for algebra! If you can’t see it, if you
can’t feel it here,” her hand slapped down over the centre of her chest,
not quite where her heart was located, but that didn’t matter because it
was all really in the brain anyway, “then you just don’t have it!”

The thought came to her, then, that Harry might not have it.

“There’s history books you haven’t read,” Harry said quietly. “There’s
books you haven’t read yet, Hermione, and they might give you a sense of
perspective. A few centuries earlier—I think it was definitely still
around in the seventeenth century—it was a popular village entertainment
to take a wicker basket, or a bundle, with a dozen live cats in it,
and—”

“Stop,” she said.

“—roast it over a bonfire. Just a regular celebration. Good clean fun.
And I’ll give them this, it was cleaner fun than burning women they
thought were witches. Because the way people are built, Hermione, the
way people are built to feel inside—” Harry put a hand over his own
heart, in the anatomically correct position, then paused and moved his
hand up to point toward his head at around the ear level, “—is that they
hurt when they see their friends hurting. Someone inside their circle of
concern, a member of their own tribe. That feeling has an off-switch, an
off-switch labelled ‘enemy’ or ‘foreigner’ or sometimes just ‘stranger’.
That’s how people are, if they don’t learn otherwise. So, no, it does
not indicate that Draco Malfoy was inhuman or even unusually evil, if he
grew up believing that it was fun to hurt his enemies—”

“If you believe that,” she said with her voice unsteady, “if you can
believe that, then you’re evil. People are always responsible for what
they do. It doesn’t matter what anyone tells you to do, you’re the one
who does it. Everyone knows that—”

“No they don’t! You grew up in a post-World-War-Two society where ‘I vas
only followink orders’ is something everyone knows the bad guys said. In
the fifteenth century they would’ve called it honourable fealty.”
Harry’s voice was rising. “Do you think you’re, you’re just genetically
better than everyone who lived back then? Like if you’d been transported
back to fifteenth-century London as a baby, you’d realize all on your
own that burning cats was wrong, witch-burning was wrong, slavery was
wrong, that every sentient being ought to be in your circle of concern?
Do you think you’d finish realizing all that by the first day you got to
Hogwarts? Nobody ever told Draco he was personally responsible for
becoming more ethical than the society he grew up in. And despite that,
it only took him four months to get to the point where he’d grab a
Muggle-born falling off a building.” Harry’s eyes were as fierce as
she’d ever seen him. “I’m not finished corrupting Draco Malfoy, but I
think he’s done pretty well so far.”

The problem with having such a good memory was that she did remember.

She remembered Draco Malfoy grabbing her wrist, so hard she’d had a
bruise afterwards, while she was falling off the roof of Hogwarts.

She remembered Draco Malfoy helping her up, after that mysterious
tripping jinx had sent her stumbling into the Slytherin Quidditch
Captain’s plate of food.

And she remembered—it was, in fact, the reason she’d brought up the
topic in the first place—how she’d felt when she’d heard Draco Malfoy’s
testimony under Veritaserum.

“Why didn’t you tell me any of this?” Hermione said, and despite
herself, her voice rose in pitch. “If I’d known—”

“It wasn’t my secret to tell you,” Harry said. “Draco’s the one who
would’ve been at risk, if his father had found out.”

“I’m not stupid, Mr Potter. What’s the real reason you didn’t tell me,
and what were you actually doing with Mr Malfoy?”

“Ah. Well…” Harry broke eye contact with her, and looked down at the
library table.

“Draco Malfoy told the Aurors under Veritaserum that he wanted to know
if he could beat me, so he challenged me to a duel to test it
empirically. Those were his exact words according to the transcript.”

“Right,” Harry said, still not meeting her eyes. “Hermione Granger. Of
course she’ll remember the exact wording. It doesn’t matter if she’s
chained to her chair, on trial for murder in front of the entire
Wizengamot—”

“What were you really doing with Draco Malfoy?”

Harry winced, and said, “Probably not quite what you’re thinking, but…”

The horror grew and grew within her, and finally broke loose.

“You were doing science with him?”

“Well—”

“You were doing science with him? You were supposed to be doing science
with me!”

“It wasn’t like that! It’s not like I was doing real science with him! I
was just, you know, teaching him some harmless bits of Muggle science,
like elementary physics with algebra and so on—it’s not like I was doing
original magical research with him, the way I was with you—”

“And I suppose you didn’t tell him about me, either?”

“Um, of course not?” Harry said. “I’ve been doing science with him since
October, and he wasn’t exactly ready to hear about you then—”

The inexpressible sense of betrayal inside her was welling and welling,
taking over everything, her rising voice, her glaring eyes, her nose
that she was certain was starting to run, the burning in her throat. She
shoved herself up from the table and took a step back, the better to
look down on her betrayer, and her voice was very nearly screeching as
she yelled, “That is not okay! You can’t do science with two people at
once!”

“Er—”

“I mean, you can’t do science with two different people and not tell
them about each other!”

“Ah…” Harry said cautiously. “I did think of that, and I was very
careful not to get your research mixed together with anything I did with
him—”

“You were being careful.” She would have hissed it, if it had contained
any S’s.

Harry raised a hand and rubbed at his messy hair, and somehow that made
her want to scream at him even more. “Miss Granger,” said Harry, “I
think this conversation has become metaphorical on a level that’s, um…”

“What?” she screeched at him, at the top of her lungs inside their
Quieting barrier.

Then she realized and got so red that if she’d had an adult level of
magical power her hair would have spontaneously caught on fire.

The lone other patron in the library, the Ravenclaw boy sitting in the
far opposite corner, was staring wide-eyed at both of them while making
a rather sad attempt to conceal it by holding up a book just below his
face.

“Right,” Harry said with a small sigh. “So, keeping firmly in mind that
it was just a bad metaphor, and that real scientists collaborate with
each other all the time, I don’t think that I was cheating. Scientists
often keep quiet about projects they’re working on. You and I are doing
research that we’re keeping secret, and there were reasons not to tell
Draco Malfoy in particular—he wouldn’t have stayed around me at all, in
the beginning, if he’d known I was your friend and not your rival. And
Draco would’ve been the one at risk if I’d told anyone else about him—”

“Is that really all?” she said. “Really, Harry? You didn’t want both of
us to feel special, like we were the only ones you wanted to be with and
the only ones who got to be with you?”

“That was not why I—”

Harry paused.

Harry looked at her.

All the blood was rushing back into her face, there probably should’ve
been steam coming out of her ears, which in turn should’ve been melting
off her head with the liquid flesh running down into her neck, as she
realized what she’d just blurted out.

Harry was staring at her in dawning and complete terror.

“Well…” she said in a rather high-pitched voice, “it’s… oh, I don’t
know, Harry! Is it just a metaphor? When a boy spends a hundred thousand
Galleons to save a girl from certain doom, she’s entitled to wonder,
don’t you think? It’s like being bought flowers, only, you see, rather
more so—”

Harry shoved himself up from the table and took a staggering step back,
even as he brought up his arms to wave frantically. “That’s not why I
did it! I did it because we’re friends!”

“Just friends?”

Harry Potter’s breathing was starting to scale up toward
hyperventilation. “Very good friends! Extra-special friends, even! Best
friends, possibly! But not that kind of friends!”

“Is it really that awful to think about?” she said with a catch in her
voice. “I mean—I’m not saying I’m in love with you, but—”

“Oh, you’re not? Thank goodness.” Harry brought up the sleeve of his
robe and wiped across his forehead. “Look, Hermione, please don’t
misunderstand, I’m sure you’re a wonderful person—”

She took a staggering step back.

“—but—even with my dark side—”

“Is that what this is about?” said Hermione. “But I—I wouldn’t—”

“No, no, I mean, I have a mysterious dark side and probably other weird
magic stuff going on, you know I’m not a normal child, not really—”

“It’s okay to not be normal,” she said, feeling increasingly desperate
and confused. “I’m okay with it—”

“But even with all that weird magical stuff letting me be more adult
than I should be, I haven’t gone through puberty yet and there’s no
hormones in my bloodstream and my brain is physically incapable of
falling in love with anyone. So I’m not in love with you! I couldn’t
possibly be in love with you! For all I know at this point, six months
from now my brain is going to wake up and decide to fall in love with
Professor Snape! Er, can I take it from this that you have been through
puberty?”

“Eep,” said Hermione in a high-pitched sound. She swayed where she
stood, and a moment later Harry was rushing over to her side and helping
lower her to sit on the ground, bracing her body with firm hands.

The fact was that she had staggered over to Professor McGonagall’s
office back in December, not in total surprise because she’d done her
reading, but still rather queasily and it was with great relief that
she’d learned that witches had Charms to deal with the inconveniences
and what was Harry even doing asking a poor innocent girl a question
like that—

“Look, I’m sorry,” Harry said frantically. “I really didn’t mean most of
that the way it sounded! I’m sure that anyone taking the outside view of
the whole situation and offering betting odds on who I finally married
would assign a higher probability to you than anyone else I can think
of—”

Her intelligence, which had barely been starting to pull itself
together, promptly exploded into sparks and flame.

“—though not necessarily a probability higher than fifty percent, I
mean, from the outside view there’s a lot of other possibilities, and
who I like before I hit puberty probably isn’t all that strongly
diagnostic of who I’ll be with seven years later—I don’t want to sound
like I’m promising anything—”

Her throat was making some sort of high-pitched sounds and she wasn’t
really listening to exactly what. All her universe had narrowed to
Harry’s terrible, terrible voice.

“—and besides I’ve been reading about evolutionary psychology, and,
well, there are all these suggestions that one man and one woman living
together happily ever afterwards may be more the exception rather than
the rule, and in hunter-gatherer tribes it was more often just staying
together for two or three years to raise a child during its most
vulnerable stages—and, I mean, considering how many people end up
horribly unhappy in traditional marriages, it seems like it might be the
sort of thing that needs some clever reworking—especially if we actually
do solve immortality—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tano Wolfe, of fifth-year Ravenclaw, slowly stood up from his library
desk, from which vantage point he’d just watched Granger flee the
library, sobbing. He hadn’t been able to hear the argument, but it had
clearly been one of those.

Slowly and with his knees trembling, Tano approached the Boy-Who-Lived,
who was staring in the direction of the library doors, still vibrating
from the force of how they’d been slammed.

Tano didn’t particularly want to do this, but Harry Potter had been
Sorted into Ravenclaw. The Boy-Who-Lived was, technically, his fellow
Ravenclaw. And that meant there was a Code.

The Boy-Who-Lived didn’t say anything as Tano approached him, but his
gaze wasn’t friendly.

Tano swallowed, laid a hand on Harry Potter’s shoulder, and recited, his
voice cracking only slightly, “Witches! Go figure, huh?”

“Remove your hand before I cast it into the outer darkness.”

The library doors slammed open again in the wake of another departure.

88. Time Pressure, Part I

April 16th, 1992

12:07 p.m.

LUNCHTIME.

Harry stomped over to the mostly-deserted Gryffindor table, determining
at a glance that lunch today was breen and Roopo balls. The ambient
conversation, Harry could likewise hear, was Quidditch-related; an
auditory environment which rated somewhat worse than the sound of rusty
chainsaws, but better than what the Ravenclaw table was still blithering
about Hermione. Gryffindor House, at least, had started out less
sympathetic to Draco Malfoy and had more political incentive to wish
that everyone would just forget certain unfortunate facts; and if that
wasn’t the right reason for silence, it was at least silence. Dean and
Seamus and Lavender were all gone for the holidays, but at least that
left…

“What was all that ruckus at the Head Table?” Harry said to the Weasley
twin group-mind, as he began to serve himself his own plate. “It looked
like it was just ending as I walked in.”

“Our beloved, but clumsy Professor Trelawney—”

“Seems to have gone and dropped an entire soup tureen on herself—”

“Not to mention Mr Hagrid.”

A quick glance at the Head Table confirmed that the Divination Professor
was waving her wand frantically as the half-Giant dabbed at his clothes.
Nobody else seemed to be paying much attention, even Professor
McGonagall. Professor Flitwick was standing on his chair as usual, the
Headmaster seemed to be absent again (he’d been gone most days of the
holiday), Professors Sprout and Sinistra and Vector were eating in their
usual grouping, and—

“You know,” Harry said, as he turned his head away to stare at the
ceiling illusion of a clear blue sky, “that still creeps me out
sometimes.”

“What does?” said Fred or George.

The powerful and enigmatic Defence Professor was ‘resting’ or
whatever-the-heck-was-wrong-with-him, his hands making fumbling,
hesitant grabs at a chicken-leg that seemed to be eluding him on the
plate.

“Eh, nothing,” said Harry. “I’m not quite used to Hogwarts, yet.”

Harry continued to eat in moderate silence, as various Weasleys
discussed some bizarre mind-affecting substance called Chudley Cannons.

“What sort of deep mysterious thoughts are you thinking?” said a
young-looking witch with short hair, sitting nearby. “I mean, just
curious. I’m Brienne, by the way.” She was gazing at him with one of
those looks which Harry had firmly decided to just ignore until he was
older.

“So,” Harry said, “you know those really simple Artificial Intelligence
programs like ELIZA that are programmed to use words in syntactic
English sentences only they don’t contain any understanding of what the
words mean?”

“Of course,” the witch said. “I have a dozen of them in my trunk.”

“Well, I’m pretty sure my understanding of girls is somewhere around
that level.”

A sudden hush fell.

It took a few seconds for Harry to realize that, no, the entire Great
Hall wasn’t staring at him, and then Harry twisted his head around to
look.

The figure who’d just staggered into the Great Hall appeared to be
Mr Filch, Hogwarts’s token hallway monitor; who, along with his
predatory cat Mrs Norris, constituted a low-level random encounter whom
Harry often breezed past wearing his epic-level Deathly Hallow. (Harry
had once consulted the Weasley twins about pulling some sort of prank on
this deserving target, whereupon Fred or George had quietly pointed out
that Mr Filch was never seen to use a wand, which was odd, really,
considering how many spells would be useful in that position, and it
made you wonder why Dumbledore had given the man a position at Hogwarts,
and Harry had shut up.)

Right now Mr Filch’s brown clothing was disarrayed and soaked with
sweat, his shoulders were visibly heaving as he breathed, and his
ever-present cat was missing.

“Troll—” gasped Mr Filch. “In the dungeons—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva McGonagall stood up from the Head Table so quickly that her
chair fell to the ground behind her.

“Argus!” she cried. “What happened to you?”

Argus Filch staggered forward from the huge doors, his upper body
streaked and dotted with small crimson dots as though someone had
spattered steak sauce over his face. “Troll—grey—twice as tall as
me—it—it—” Argus Filch covered his face with his hands. “It ate
Mrs Norris—ate her all up, in just one bite—”

Minerva felt a stab of dismay in her other self, she hadn’t liked the
other cat very much but the two of them had still been felines.

An uproar started from the Great Hall. Severus stood up from the Head
Table, somehow doing so without drawing any visible attention to
himself, and strode out the huge doors without another word.

Of course, Minerva thought, the third-floor corridor—this could be a
distraction—

She mentally consigned all such matters to Severus’s care, drew her
wand, raised it high, and let out five sharp cracks of purple fire.

There was stunned silence but for Argus’s broken sobs.

“It seems we have a dangerous creature loose in Hogwarts,” she said to
the faculty at the Head Table. “I will ask you all to aid in searching
the halls.” Then she turned to the stunned and watching students, and
raised her voice. “Prefects—lead your houses back to the dormitories
immediately!”

Percy Weasley leaped up from the Gryffindor table. “Follow me!” he said
in a high voice. “Stick together, first-years! No, not you—” but by that
time the other prefects were raising their own voices as a renewed
babble sprang up.

Then a clear, cool voice spoke under the sudden rush of sound.

“Deputy Headmistress.”

She turned.

The Defence Professor was calmly wiping off his hands on a napkin as he
stood up from the Head Table. “With respect,” said the man of unknown
identity, “you are not expert in battle tactics, madam. In this
situation, it would be wiser to—”

“I do apologize, Professor,” said Professor McGonagall, as she turned
toward the great doors. Filius and Pomona had already risen to follow
her, with Rubeus Hagrid towering over all of them as the half-giant
stood up. She’d been through similar experiences too many times, at this
point. “Sad experience has taught me that on occasions such as these, it
is not a good time to take any advice the current Defence Professor may
offer. Indeed, I think it wise that the two of us search for the troll
together, so that no suspicions may be cast upon you for any untoward
events which occur during that time.”

Without any hesitation, the Defence Professor swung smoothly on the
Gryffindor table and clapped his hands with a sound like a floor
cracking through.

“Michelle Morgan of House Gryffindor, second-in-command of Pinnini’s
Army,” the Defence Professor said calmly into the resulting quiet.
“Please advise your Head of House.”

Michelle Morgan climbed up onto her bench and spoke, the tiny witch
sounding far more confident than Minerva remembered her being at the
start of the year. “Students walking through the hallways would be
spread out and impossible to defend. All students are to remain in the
Great Hall and form a cluster in the centre… not surrounded by tables, a
troll would jump right over tables… with the perimeter defended by
seventh-year students. From the armies only, no matter how good they are
at duelling, so they don’t get in each other’s lines of fire.” Michelle
hesitated. “I’m sorry, Mr Hagrid, but—it wouldn’t be safe for you, you
should stay behind with the students. And Professor Trelawney shouldn’t
confront a troll on her own either,” Michelle sounded much less
apologetic about this part, “but if she’s paired with Professor Quirrell
the two of them together can form an additional trusted and effective
battle unit. That concludes my analysis, Professor.”

“Adequate, for being put on the spot,” the Defence Professor said.
“Twenty Quirrell points to you. But you neglect the still simpler point
that home does not mean safe, and a troll is strong enough to rip a
portrait door off its hinges—”

“Enough,” Minerva snapped. “Thank you, Miss Morgan.” She looked to the
watching tables. “Students, you will do as she said.” Turned back to the
Head Table. “Professor Trelawney, you will accompany the Defence
Professor—”

“Ah,” Sybill said falteringly. Beneath her overdone make-up and heap of
shawls, the woman looked rather pale. “I’m afraid—I’m not entirely well
today—indeed, I feel rather faint—”

“You won’t have to fight the troll,” Minerva said sharply, her patience
taxed as usual when dealing with the woman. “Just stay with the Defence
Professor and do not let him out of your sight for an instant, you must
be able to testify afterwards that you were with him at all times.” She
turned to Rubeus. “Rubeus, I am leaving you in charge here. Keep them
safe.” The huge man straightened at this, losing his glum look and
nodding proudly to her.

Then Minerva looked at the students, and raised her voice. “It should go
entirely without saying that anyone leaving the Great Hall for any
reason, will be expelled. No excuses will be accepted. Am I understood?”

The Weasley twins, with whom she’d been making direct eye contact,
nodded respectfully.

She turned without another word and marched off toward the hall doors
with the other Professors behind her.

On the far side of the room, unnoticed on the wall, a clock showed
12:14 p.m.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

…and he still didn’t realize.

Tick.

As Harry stared with narrowed eyes at where the Professors had gone out,
wondering what was actually going on and what it meant, as the students
came together into a more defensible mass and wands flicked to levitate
the tables out of their way, Harry still didn’t realize.

Tick.

“Shouldn’t the Professors all have formed up into pairs?” said an older
Gryffindor student whose name Harry didn’t know. “I mean—it’d be slower,
but it’d be safer, I think—”

Tick.

Someone else replied to this, raising her voice, but Harry didn’t catch
much of it, the gist was that mountain trolls were highly
magic-resistant and incredibly strong and could regenerate but they were
still noisy so if you heard them coming, it shouldn’t be that hard for a
Hogwarts Professor to wrap them up in Vadim’s Unbreakable something
something.

Tick.

And Harry still didn’t realize.

Tick.

The crowd noises were subdued, people were talking in low voices to each
other while they glanced around, listening for the sound of a crashing
door or an angry roar.

Tick.

Some students were speculating in whispers about what the Defence
Professor could possibly be trying to achieve by smuggling in a troll,
and whether he was angry that Professor McGonagall had caught on to his
attempted distraction, and what it was a distraction from.

Tick.

And the thought still didn’t come to Harry, not until after all the
students had formed a mass of perhaps a hundred bodies patrolled by
proudly grim-looking seventh-year students with their wands all pointed
outward, and somebody suggested doing a headcount, and someone else
replied sarcastically that this might have made sense on some other day,
but right now practically everyone was gone for the spring holiday and
nobody really knew how many students were supposed to be in the room,
let alone if any were missing.

Tick.

That was when Harry wondered where Hermione was.

Tick.

Harry looked over at where the Ravenclaws had clustered, he didn’t see
Hermione but then everyone was packed tightly-enough together that you
wouldn’t expect to see smaller students through the crowd, amid the
upper-years.

Tick.

Harry then looked over at the Hufflepuffs to see if he could spot
Neville, and even though Neville was standing behind a much taller
student, Harry’s visual processing managed to spot him almost
immediately. Hermione wasn’t with the Hufflepuffs either, not that Harry
could see—and she certainly wouldn’t be with the Slytherins—

Tick.

Harry pushed his way through the packed crowd, stepping beside or around
older students and in one case just ducking between their legs, until he
was standing among the Ravenclaws and could definitely verify that,
nope, no Hermione.

Tick.

“Hermione Granger!” Harry said loudly. “Are you here?”

Nobody answered.

Tick.

Somewhere in the back of his mind was a rising sense of horror, as other
parts of him tried to decide exactly how much to panic. The first
Defence class of the year was rather fuzzy in Harry’s mind, but he
distantly remembered something about trolls being able to track prey
that was alone and undefended.

Tick.

Another line of thought sorted frantically through inchoate
possibilities; what could he do exactly? It wasn’t 3 p.m. yet so he
couldn’t reach this now using his Time-Turner. Even if he could sneak
out of the room—there had to be some way to put on his Cloak without
being noticed, some sort of distraction he could use—he had no idea
where Hermione was, and Hogwarts was huge.

Tick.

Another part of his mind tried to model possibilities. From what that
other student had said, trolls weren’t silent predators, they were
noisy—

Hermione won’t have any idea it’s a troll, so she’ll go investigate the
noise. She’s a heroine, isn’t she?

—but Hermione now had an invisibility cloak and a broomstick in her
pouch. Harry had insisted on that part for both her and Neville, and
Professor McGonagall had told him it’d been done. That ought to be
enough to let Hermione get away, even if she was lousy on a broomstick.
All she had to do was get onto a section of roof, it was a clear day and
sunlight was supposed to be bad for trolls somehow, Harry remembered
that part and therefore Hermione would remember it exactly. And surely,
even if Hermione wanted to prove herself again, she couldn’t possibly be
dumb enough to attack a mountain troll.

Tick.

She wouldn’t.

Tick.

That just wasn’t her.

Tick.

And then it occurred to Harry that somebody had previously tried to
frame Hermione Granger for murder using Memory Charms. Had done so
inside Hogwarts, without setting off any alarms. And had arranged for
Draco to die slowly enough that it wouldn’t set off the wards until at
least six hours later when nobody could use a Time-Turner to check. And
that whoever was clever enough to infiltrate a troll past the ancient
wards of Hogwarts without the Headmaster coming to investigate the
strange creature, could be clever enough to also take the obvious step
of jinxing Hermione’s magic items…

Tick.

There was a part of him that felt something like slowly rising panic as
perspective shifted, a Necker Cube changing orientation, what the hell
had Harry been thinking, letting Hermione and Neville be kept inside
Hogwarts just because of them being given a few stupid trinkets, that
wasn’t going to stop anyone who wanted to kill them.

Tick.

Another part of his mind put up resistance, that possibility wasn’t
certain, it was complex and the probability could easily be under 50%.
It was easy to imagine going into a huge panic in front of everyone and
then Hermione getting back from the toilets outside the Great Hall. Or
if the troll ended up not going anywhere near her… like in the story of
the boy who cried wolf, nobody would believe him the next time if she
really was in trouble; it could use up reputational credit that he would
later need for something else…

Tick.

Harry recognized an instance of the fear-of-embarrassment schema that
stopped most people from ever doing anything under conditions of
uncertainty, and squashed it down hard. Even then it was strange how
much willpower it took to muster the decision to shout out loud in front
of everyone, if he just hadn’t seen Hermione in the crowd it was going
to be embarrassing…

Tick.

Harry drew in a deep breath and shouted as loudly as he could, “Hermione
Granger! Are you here?”

The students all turned to look at him. Then some of them turned around
to look around themselves. The noise around the room went down in volume
as some conversations stilled.

“Has anyone seen Hermione Granger since— since around ten-thirty today
or so? Does anyone have any idea where she might be?”

The background babble stilled further.

Nobody raised their voice to shout anything at him, in particular not,
Don’t worry, Harry, I’m right here.

“Oh, Merlin,” somebody said from nearby, and then the background babble
started up again, taking on a new and excited tone.

Harry stared down at his hands, shutting out the yammering and tried to
think, think, think—

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

Susan Bones and a red-headed boy with a battered-looking wand both
shoved their way through the crowd to Harry at the same time.

“We’ve got to let the Professors know somehow—”

“We’ve got to go find her—”

“Find her?” Susan snapped, rounding on the other boy. “How’ll we do
that, Captain Weasley?”

“We’ll go off and look for her!” Ron Weasley snapped back.

“Are you nuts? There’s already Professors searching the hallways, what
makes you think we’ve got any better chance than them of running across
General Granger? Only we’ll get eaten by the troll! And then expelled!”

It was odd, how sometimes hearing bad ideas made the right idea obvious
by contrast.

“All right everyone! Listen up!”

People turned to look.

“QUIET! EVERYONE! SHUT UP!”

Harry’s throat ached after that, but he had everyone’s attention.

“I have a broomstick,” Harry said as loudly as he could manage with his
throat still hurting. He’d remembered Azkaban, and the broomstick which
had only sat two, when he’d requested one that could carry three. “It’s
a 3-seater. I need one seventh-year from the armies to come with me.
We’re going to fly through the hallways as fast as possible looking for
Hermione Granger, pick her up, and come back immediately. Who’s with
me?”

The Great Hall became entirely silent, then.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Students glanced at each other uneasily. The younger students looked
expectantly at the older students, while they in turn turned to look at
the students who were guarding the perimeter. Most of those were staring
straight ahead, pointing their wands just in case the troll picked that
moment to burst through a wall.

No-one moved.

No-one spoke.

Harry Potter spoke again. “We’re not going to fight the troll. If we see
it we’ll just fly away and there’s no way it’ll be able to keep up with
us on a broomstick. I’ll take responsibility for squaring it with the
administration. Please.”

People went on looking at other people.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry stared at the silent crowd, the dozen seventh-years looking
sternly outward, feeling the coldness coming over him. Somewhere in the
back of his mind, Professor Quirrell was laughing scornfully and mocking
the idea that ordinary fools would ever do something useful of their own
will, without a wand pointed at their heads…

Tick.

The standard remedy for bystander apathy was to focus on a single
individual. “All right,” Harry said, trying to keep the commanding voice
of the Boy-Who-Lived who didn’t doubt obedience. “Miss Morgan, come with
me, now. We’ve got no time to waste.”

The witch he’d named turned from where she’d been staring steadily out
at the perimeter, her expression aghast for the one second before her
face closed up.

“The Deputy Headmistress ordered us all to stay here, Mr Potter.”

It took an effort for Harry to unclench his teeth. “Professor Quirrell
didn’t say that and neither did you. Professor McGonagall isn’t a
tactician, she didn’t think to check if we had missing students and she
thought it was a good idea to start marching students through the
hallways. But Professor McGonagall understands after her mistakes are
pointed out to her, you saw how she listened to you and Professor
Quirrell, and I’m certain that she wouldn’t want us to just ignore the
fact that Hermione Granger is out there, alone—”

Tick.

“I’d expect the Professor to say she’d not wish any more students
roaming the halls. The Professor said if anyone left for any reason,
they’d be expelled. Maybe you don’t need to worry because you’re the
Boy-Who-Lived, but the rest of us do!”

Tick.

Somewhere in the back of his mind, Professor Quirrell was just laughing
at him. Expecting some normal person to act without perfect strategic
clarity, without a clear focus of responsibility on them personally,
when they had a good excuse to do nothing… “A student’s life is at
stake,” Harry said in a level voice. “She could be fighting the troll
right now. Out of curiosity, does that mean anything to you at all?”

Tick.

Miss Morgan’s face twisted. “You—you’re the Boy-Who-Lived! Just go off
by yourself and snap your fingers, if you want to help her!”

Tick.

Harry was hardly even aware of what he was saying. “That’s just
cleverness and bluffing, I don’t have any power like that in real life,
a young girl needs your help now are you a Gryffindor or not?”

“Why are you saying any of this to me?” cried Miss Morgan. “I wasn’t
left in charge here! Mr Hagrid was!”

There was an awkward pause that suffused the whole room.

Harry spun to look up at the huge half-giant towering over the crowd of
students, as all other heads also turned toward him as one.

“Mr Hagrid,” Harry said, trying to keep his voice commanding. “You need
to authorize this expedition and you need to do it now.”

Rubeus Hagrid looked conflicted, though that was hard to judge with his
vast head so surrounded by his unshorn beard and locks; only his eyes
looked alive, embedded in all that hair. “Eh…” said the half-giant. “I
was tol’ to keep yeh all safe—”

“Great, now can we also keep Hermione Granger safe? You know, the
student framed for a murder she did not commit who needs someone to help
her?”

The half-giant started as Harry spoke the words.

Harry stared at the enormous man, desperately willing him to pick up on
the hint, hoping the words hadn’t given it away to anyone else—he
couldn’t be just muscle, surely James and Lily had been friends with
this man out of more than pity—

“Framed?” called out an anonymous voice, from somewhere over near where
the Slytherins gathered. “Ha, are you still on that? It’d serve her
right if she did get eaten.”

There was some laughter, even as cries of indignation came from
elsewhere.

The half-giant’s face firmed up. “Yeh stay here, lad,” Mr Hagrid said in
a booming tone that was probably meant to be gentle. “I’ll go and look
fer her meself. Truth is, trolls can be a mite tricky—yeh’ve got to
catch ’em by an ankle and dangle ’em just right, or they’ll rip yeh
clean in half—”

“Can you ride a broomstick, Mr Hagrid?”

“Eh—” Rubeus Hagrid frowned. “No.”

“Then you can’t search fast enough. Sixth-years! Calling all
sixth-years! Are there any sixth-years here who aren’t worthless
cowards?”

Silence.

“Fifth years? Mr Hagrid, tell them they’re authorized to go with me and
keep me safe! I’m trying to be sensible, damn it!”

The half-giant wrung his hands with an agonized expression. “Eh—I—”

Something snapped inside Harry and he started to stride directly toward
the doors to the Great Hall, pushing aside anyone who didn’t get out of
his way as though they were doughy statues. (He didn’t run, because
running was an invitation for somebody to stop you.) Somewhere in his
mind he was moving through an empty room filled with mechanical puppets
by whose meaningless lip-moving noises he’d been distracted—

A huge figure interposed itself in his way.

Harry looked up.

“I can’t let yeh do that, Harry, not yeh of all people. There’s strange
things afoot in this castle, and someone might be after Hermione—or they
might be after yeh.” Rubeus Hagrid’s voice was regretful but firm, and
his gigantic hands lay at his side like forklifts. “I can’t let yeh go
out there, Harry Potter.”

“Stupefy!”

The red bolt crashed into the side of Hagrid’s head and made the huge
man start. His head snapped around faster than anything that large
should’ve moved, and bellowed, “What do yeh think yeh’re doing!” at the
young form of Susan Bones.

“Sorry!” she screamed. “Incendium! Glisseo!”

The huge man’s hands, now slapping at the fire in his beard, didn’t
quite manage to catch himself as he crashed to the floor, but it didn’t
matter by then because Harry was past him and—

Neville Longbottom stepped in front of him, looking desperate but
determined, the Hufflepuff boy’s wand already level in his hand.

Harry’s hand went for his wand in a sheer reflex action, he barely
managed to check himself before Neville could fire on him, staring at
his Lieutenant as though the world had gone mad.

“Harry!” Neville burst out. “Harry, Mr Hagrid’s right, you can’t, this
could all be a trap, they could be after you—”

All of Neville’s muscles went rigid and he toppled to the ground, stiff
as a board.

A pale-looking Ron Weasley stepped out from behind Neville, his own wand
level, and said, “Go.”

“Ron, you madman, what are you doing—” came a voice distantly
identifiable as Miss Clearwater’s boyfriend, but Harry was already
dashing for the door without looking back, even as Ron’s voice and
Susan’s voice rose again in incantation. There was a huge indignant
bellow, and unknown voices began to yell.

Then Harry was through, his hand reaching into his pouch and his voice
was saying “broomstick”, as behind him the great doors began to swing
shut again.

Harry continued running through the Entrance Hall even as the long
three-person broomstick and its sets of stirrups began to protrude from
the pouch, repeating a number of swearwords in his head and thinking
this is what happens when you try to be sensible with the part of his
mind that wasn’t trying to figure out a search pattern to cover places
where Hermione might be. The Library was on the third floor and
practically on the other side of the castle… Harry had almost reached
the great marble staircase by the time the broomstick was in his hand
and “Up!” he was in the air and accelerating up toward the second floor—

“Gah!” Harry screamed, and barely managed to spin his broom in the air
so that he didn’t impale one of the human figures lurking at the top of
the stairs. There was a ghastly moment of trying not to fall off the
broom, perform the twists that would keep him in the stirrups, despite
being really close to the ground and having almost no room to manœuvre
and then—

“Fred? George?”

“We can’t figure out how to find her!” one of the Weasley twins blurted,
hands twisting in distress. “We sneaked out because we thought we could
find Miss Granger—there has to be a quick way to find anyone inside the
Hogwarts castle, we’re both sure of it—but we can’t figure out what it
is!”

Harry stared at both of them, from where he was hanging upside-down from
the broomstick where his desperate manœuvre had brought him, and
entirely by reflex his mouth said, “Well, why were you so sure you could
find her?”

“We don’t know!” cried the other Weasley twin.

“Have you been able to find people inside Hogwarts before?”

“Yes! We—” and the Weasley twin who was speaking stopped abruptly, both
redheads staring off into the distance with a blank expression.

There was a thundering crash, as of two huge doors being shoved open by
someone very, very strong.

Harry spun around in the air to present the two open stirrup-positions
on the broomstick to the Weasley twins, he didn’t say anything, there
was no reason for them to give away their positions if they didn’t have
to. Time seemed to move too slowly as the Weasley twins scrambled into
the stirrups, Harry’s heart beating hard despite his mental calculation
that Mr Hagrid, running, shouldn’t reach even the foot of the stairway
in time. Then the three of them were accelerating hard and away toward
the nearest corridor, the stone floor beneath them blurring and the
walls seeming to make an audible whooshing sound (though that was just
the wind in their ears) as they went past; Harry remembered that he was
riding a longer three-person broomstick barely in time to slow down for
the next turn.

And now all the broomstick seats were occupied, but if they actually
found Hermione then—Harry could put on the Cloak of Invisibility, that
should hide him from the troll, and that would free up a seat for
Hermione—

Harry ducked hard before a sudden archway took his head off.

“We found Jesse!” the Weasley twin seated behind Harry blurted. “I know
we did! That time we needed to tell him that Filch was hunting for him!”

“How?” Harry said, most of his brain engaged in not dying in a horrible
air accident. He should have slowed down for safety, but there was a
tension rising in him, a sourceless dread. He couldn’t slow down,
something terrible would happen if he slowed down…

“We—” said the Weasley twin seated lower down. “We can’t remember!”

Another sharp turn taken at, Harry estimated, roughly 0.3% of the speed
of light, and they were going through a twisty curving corridor that
Harry always took to get from the Great Hall to the library only it
wasn’t the shortest way if you were on a broomstick, he should’ve taken
the long straight West Corridor instead—

The part of his brain that wasn’t steering caught up with reality.

“Someone’s been tampering with your minds!” Harry yelled, as he weaved
through the curving corridor so fast that the tail-end Weasley sometimes
lightly smacked into the wall as the length of the broomstick conflicted
with Harry’s maladapted air skills.

“What?” cried Fred or George.

“Whoever got to Hermione messed with your minds too!” It could be an
Obliviation, it could be a False Memory that hadn’t been planted right,
but right now Harry couldn’t think—

The broomstick turned and shot upward along a spiral staircase, all
three of them flattened themselves against the broomstick so they could
make in through the gap in the ceiling that opened onto the third floor,
and then they were in front of the library, the broomstick slowing to a
halt with a shriek despite the lack of anything it could be
friction-braking against. Harry shot the Weasley twins a quick glance to
stay put, as he clambered off the broomstick to shove open the doors of
the library, controlling his breathing as he shoved his head inside.

Hermione Granger wasn’t there.

Madam Pince, who was eating a sandwich at her desk, looked up with a
sudden glare. “Library’s closed!”

“Have you seen Hermione Granger?” Harry said.

“I said the library’s closed, boy! Lunch hours!”

“This is extremely important. Have you seen Hermione Granger or do you
have any idea where she might be?”

“No, now be off!”

“Do you have any fast way of contacting Professor McGonagall in an
emergency?”

“Eh?” said the librarian, startled. She rose up from behind her desk.
“What is—”

“Yes or no. Please answer immediately.”

“Ah—there’s the Floo—”

“She’s not in her office,” Harry said. “Do you have any other way of
reaching her. Yes or no.”

“Young man, I insist that you—”

Harry’s brain flagged this as I’m talking to NPCs again and he spun on
his heel and dashed back for the broomstick.

“Stop!” cried Madam Pince, bursting too late from the doors as Harry and
the Weasley twins shot off again, out of the librarian’s sight. The
pressure in Harry’s mind still rising, like a physical hand squeezing
his chest, he had to find Hermione and he had no other notion of where
she could be, unless it was the witches’ dorms in the Ravenclaw tower
and that he couldn’t enter. Searching all of Hogwarts bordered on a
mathematical impossibility, there probably was no continuous flight path
that entered all the rooms at least once—why hadn’t he thought to demand
for Hermione and Neville and him to be given a set of those neat little
mirrors the Aurors used to communicate—

The realization that he was being stupid hit Harry like a blow to the
stomach. He didn’t need mirrors to send a message, he hadn’t needed
mirrors since January. Harry slowed the broomstick to a halt in mid-air
of a hallway, his wand already coming into his hand, the driving will to
protect Hermione Granger rising to the front of his mind like a sun of
silver fire and flowing down his arm as he cried

“Expecto Patronum!”

and the blazing white humanoid burst into existence like a nova, the
Weasley twins’ voices crying aloud in shock.

“Tell Hermione Granger—that there’s a troll loose in Hogwarts—it could
be hunting for her—she needs to get into direct sunlight, now!”

The silver figure turned as though it was departing, and then vanished.

“Merlin’s underpants,” breathed Fred or George.

The silver outline blasted back into the world, and said in the strange
version of Harry’s own voice, “Hermione Granger says,” the blazing
figure’s voice became higher-pitched, “AHHHHHHHHH!”

Time seemed to fracture, like everything was moving very quickly and
slowly at the same time. A desperate impulse to accelerate the
broomstick, fly at its maximum speed, only Harry didn’t know where—

“If you know where she is,” Harry shouted to the blazing humanoid
figure, staring into it as though it were a sun, “then take me to her!”

The silver blaze moved and Harry accelerated after it, the Weasley twins
giving out high-pitched shrieks behind him as he fired through the air
like a cannonball, moving faster than sanity, he didn’t focus on the
walls whizzing past him or how fast he was moving, just followed the
silver light through corridors and flying up staircases and blitzing
through doors that Fred or George cried desperate incantations to open
and it was all still taking too much time, somewhere deep inside Harry
felt like he was sinking through molasses as windows and portraits shot
past.

The broomstick screamed through a final turn that whacked one of the
Weasley twins against the wall not quite as hard as a Bludger would hit,
and then they followed the brilliant Patronus through an open space in
the ceilings, blasting up and upwards, rising past one floor and then
another in less than a breath.

His Patronus slowed to a halt (Harry braking hard in response) just as
they reached the level of a wide-open floor space that spread out until
it escaped the ceiling and turned into an outdoor terrace, a spread of
tiled marble open to the air and sky—

89. Time Pressure, Part II

COOL blue fires clung to the floor in small masses, surrounding a
blazing pool that seemed to burn with a deadlier, hotter blue.

In one narrow circle the marble tiles were scorched and shattered by
some explosive spell that only the most prodigious of first-year witches
could have cast, with the last of her strength.

On the terrace, still moving beneath the open sunlight, stood a great
lumpy creature of dull granite-grey. Body like a boulder with small bald
head perched on top like a stone, short legs thick as tree trunks with
flat, horny feet. One hand held a tremendous stone club as long and as
wide as an adult human, and the other hand held xxxxxx

The Weasley twins screamed.

Harry’s Patronus shattered.

The troll snorted and spun around to face them, dropping xxxxxx into the
red pool that had spread out beneath its feet, raising its club high.

Then a Weasley cried an incantation and the club was torn from the
troll’s hand, smashed into its face so hard it drove the troll back for
one of its steps, a blow that might have killed a Muggle. The troll gave
a bellow of anger, its nose squashed and blood-spattered, and then the
nose straightened once more, regenerated. The troll grabbed with both
hands for the club, which shot away through the air but only barely
dodged the grab.

“Lead it away, keep it off me,” said a voice.

The levitated club moved backwards from the troll, from the terrace onto
the wide-open floor beneath the ceiling; and the troll made a great
prodigious leap that almost brought the club into its hands. Then the
troll made another great leap as the club moved to one side; and the
broomstick moved forwards and Harry jumped off and ran towards where
Hermione Granger was lying in a pool of her own blood with her legs
eaten away to the upper thighs.

Harry’s hands tore open the healer’s kit from his pouch, grabbed one of
the self-tightening tourniquets, wrapped them around one ragged
tooth-marked stump, his hands briefly slipping in the blood, they didn’t
tremble, there wasn’t any allowance for his hands to tremble. As the
tourniquet formed a complete loop it tightened hard and more blood came
out, but then the bleeding stopped on that thigh-stump, and Harry turned
to the other. Part of his mind was screaming, screaming, screaming and
even the part of him picking up the other self-tightening tourniquet
heard it, but that also wasn’t allowed.

The two Weasley twins were shouting spells, one after another in
rapid-fire casting that would have had Harry unconscious in sixty
seconds, sometimes the twins shouted two spells simultaneously in
perfect coordination, but most of the spells were disrupting in harmless
showers of sparks against the troll’s skin. As the other tourniquet
tightened itself in another pulse of blood, Harry looked up at a
“Diffindo!” / “Reducto!” that made the troll’s vulnerable eyes explode
in twin showers of vitreous humour, but the troll only bellowed once
more, its eyes already reforming.

“Fire and acid!” Harry shouted. “Use fire or acid!”

“Fuego!” / “Incendio!” Harry heard, but he wasn’t looking, he was
reaching for the syringe of glowing orange liquid that was the
oxygenating potion, pushing it into Hermione’s neck at what Harry hoped
was the carotid artery, to keep her brain alive even if her lungs or
heart stopped, so long as her brain stayed intact everything else could
be fixed, it had to be possible for magic to fix it, it had to be
possible for magic to fix it, it had to be possible for magic to fix it,
and Harry pushed the plunger of the syringe all the way down, creating a
faint glow beneath the pale skin of her neck. Harry then pushed down on
her chest, where her heart should be, hard compressions that he hoped
was moving the oxygenated blood around to where it could reach her
brain, even if her heart might have stopped beating, he hadn’t actually
thought to check her pulse.

Then Harry stared at the other things in his medical kit, his mind going
blank as he tried to figure out what else of what was there, if
anything, he could use. The screaming in that distant corner of his mind
was getting louder, much louder, now that his hands had stopped their
frantic motions. He was suddenly aware of the liquid sensation where
blood had soaked through his robes and the knees of his trousers.

From behind Harry came the sound of another bellow from the troll, and
he heard one of the Weasley twins shout “Deligitor prodeas!” and then,
“HELP! Do something!”

Harry twisted his head back to look, and saw that one of the Weasley
twins was somehow now wearing the Sorting Hat on his head, facing off
against the troll which held the huge stone club in both its hands,
looking somewhat scorched now and with one or two smoking scars across
its arms, but still intact.

And then the voice of the Hat bellowed in a voice so loud it seemed to
shake the walls,

“GRYFFINDOR!”

A pulse of power burned the air, magic almost tangible even to Harry’s
undeveloped senses; the troll jumped back a pace with a snort of
surprise. Fred or George, with a strange look on his face, swept the Hat
off his head with a motion smooth as a magician’s trick, and reached in
with one hand and drew forth a hilt whose pommel was a glowing ruby,
followed by a wide crossguard of gleaming white metal, and a blade as
long as a tall child. As the sword was revealed the air seemed to fill
with a silent scream of fury.

Upon the blade was written in golden script, nihil supernum.

Then the Weasley twin raised the sword aloft as though the huge blade
weighed nothing, and screamed and charged.

Harry’s lips opened to say something, some long sentence like, No, stop,
you have no idea how to use a sword but not even a single syllable left
his lips before the sword sliced off the troll’s right arm through the
elbow, cutting through skin and flesh and bone like jelly; just as the
already-swinging arc of the stone club smashed into the charging Weasley
twin and sent him flying through the air above the marble floor, over
the gap out of which they’d risen on the broomstick, until that Weasley
hit the wall on the opposite side and then collapsed into an unmoving
heap.

The bright sword vanished down into the opening in the floor, clattering
distantly as it dropped.

“Fred!” screamed George Weasley, and then “VENTUS!”

An invisible blow caught the troll and hurled it sideways through the
air.

“VENTUS!”

The troll was hit again, blown to the edge of the floor and the gap
leading downwards.

“VENTUS!”

But the troll had reached down and grabbed at the floor, its remaining
hand crunching through marble to gain a firm hold. The third blow sent
the troll’s body over the gap; but the hand remained at the edge. And
then the troll was pulling itself back up single-handedly, roaring.

George Weasley staggered, almost falling, his hand dropping to his side.
“Harry—” the Weasley twin said in a strained voice, “Run—”

The remaining Weasley twin took a step sideways, slumped against the
wall, and slid to the ground.

Time was fractured in Harry’s mind, the world around him seemed to move
slowly, distorted, or perhaps it was his own mind twisting and folding.
He should have been moving, doing something, but a strange paralysis
seemed to be stopping all his muscles, all his motions. Without any time
for words, thoughts came in flashes of concepts: that if Harry ran away
the troll would eat the Weasley twins as well as Hermione, that if
Bludgers didn’t kill wizards then Fred should still be alive, that the
Weasley twins were more powerful spell-casters than him and they hadn’t
been able to hold back the troll, there was no time to Transfigure
anything he didn’t already possess, the troll seemed too agile to be
lured over the edge of the terrace to fall off the sides of the Hogwarts
castle, someone had enchanted the troll against sunlight before using it
as a murder weapon and might also have strengthened it in other ways.
And then a mental image of Hermione running from the troll, running for
sunlight, finally reaching the bright terrace with the troll hot on her
heels, only to find that someone else had thought of that possibility,
too.

The screaming horror in his mind was drowned out by another emotion.

Harry stood up.

On the other side of the room, the enemy had also risen, the
unregenerating stump of one sword-cut arm still bloody.

intent to kill

The troll grasped its fallen club in its remaining hand, and gave a huge
bellow, smashing the club into the floor and sending marble chips
flying.

think purely of killing

The troll began to lumber towards where George had fallen, a thin string
of drool trailing from the side of its lips.

grasp at any means to do so

Harry took five strides forward, and the enemy gave another bellow and
turned away from George, its eyes focusing squarely on him.

censors off, do not flinch

The third most perfect killing machine in nature bounded towards him in
leaping steps.

KILL

Harry’s left hand already held the Transfigured diamond from his ring,
his right hand already held his wand.

“Wingardium Leviosa.”

Harry’s wand directed the tiny jewel into the troll’s mouth.

“Finite Incantatem.”

The troll’s head blew off its spine as the rock expanded back into its
old form, and Harry stepped aside as the Enemy’s body crashed where he’d
been standing.

The enemy’s head was already beginning to regenerate, the ragged stump
of the jaw and spine smoothing over, the mouth completing itself and
replacing its teeth.

Harry bent down and picked up the troll’s head by its left ear. His wand
jammed through the troll’s left eye, plunging through the jelly-like
material and passing through the wide socket in the bone. Harry
visualized a one-millimetre-wide cross-section through the enemy’s
brain, and Transfigured it into sulphuric acid.

The enemy stopped regenerating.

Harry threw the corpse over the edge of the terrace and turned back to
Hermione.

Her eyes were moving, and focused on him.

Harry crouched beside her, ignoring the blood soaking more of his
already-soaked robes. You’ll be all right, his brain formed the
sentence, but his lips wouldn’t move. You’ll be all right, we’ll find
some magic to fix all this, put you back to normal, just hold on, don’t—

Hermione’s lips were moving, just a tiny bit but they were moving.

“your… fault…”

Time froze. Harry should have told her not to talk, to save her breath,
only he couldn’t unblock his lips.

Hermione drew in another breath, and her lips whispered, “Not your
fault.”

Then she exhaled, and closed her eyes.

Harry stared at her with his mouth half-open, his breath caught in his
throat.

“Don’t do this,” said his voice. He’d only been two minutes late.

Hermione suddenly convulsed, her arms twitching into the air as though
reaching up for something, and her eyes flew open again. There was a
burst of something that was magic and also more, a shout louder than an
earthquake and containing a thousand books, a thousand libraries, all
spoken in a single cry that was Hermione; too vast to be understood,
except that Harry suddenly knew that Hermione had whited out the pain,
and was glad not to be dying alone. For a moment it seemed like the
outpouring of magic might hold, take root in the castle’s stone; but
then the outpouring ended and the magic faded, her body stopped moving
and all motion halted as Hermione Jean Granger ceased to exist—

No.

Harry stood up from the body, swaying.

No.

There was a burst of flame and Dumbledore was standing there with
Fawkes, his eyes filled with horror. “I felt a student die! What—”

The old wizard’s eyes saw what lay upon the ground.

“Oh, no,” whispered Albus Dumbledore. Fawkes gave a sad, mournful croon.

“Bring her back.”

There was silence on the terrace. Fred Weasley had risen up into the air
at a gesture from Dumbledore’s wand and was floating towards them,
surrounded by a reassuring pink glow.

“Harry—” the old wizard began. His voice cracked. “Harry—”

“Have Fawkes cry on her or whatever. Hurry up.” The voice that spoke
sounded perfectly calm.

“I, I can’t, Harry, it’s too late, she’s dead—”

“I don’t want to hear about it. If it was me lying there, you’d pull
some kind of amazing rabbit out of your hat and save me, right, because
the hero isn’t allowed to die before the story’s over. Well, she’s the
hero too, so whatever you were saving for that extra-special occasion,
just go ahead and use it now. I promise I’ll pay you back.”

“There isn’t anything I can do! Her soul has departed, she’s passed on!”

Harry opened his mouth to scream out all his fury, and then closed it
again. There wasn’t any point in screaming, it wouldn’t accomplish
anything. The unbearable pressure rising inside him couldn’t be let out
that way.

Harry turned away from Dumbledore and looked down at where the remains
of Hermione Granger were lying in a pool of blood. Part of his mind was
hammering at the world around him, trying to make it go away, wake up
from the nightmare and find himself back in his Ravenclaw dorm with the
morning sun shining through the curtains. But the blood remained and
Harry didn’t wake up, and another part of him already knew that this
event was real, part of the same flawed world that included Azkaban and
the Wizengamot chamber and

No

With a fracturing feeling, as though time was still torn to pieces
around him, Harry turned away from Dumbledore and looked down at the
remains of Hermione Granger lying in a pool of blood with two
tourniquets tied around her thigh-stumps, and decided

No.

I do not accept this.

There isn’t any reason to accept it, not when there’s magic in the
world.

Harry would learn whatever he had to learn, invent whatever he had to
invent, rip the knowledge of Salazar Slytherin from the Dark Lord’s
mind, discover the secret of Atlantis, open any gates or break any seals
necessary, find his way to the root of all magic and reprogram it.

He would rip apart the foundations of reality itself to get Hermione
Granger back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“The crisis is over,” the Defence Professor said. “You may dismount,
Madam.”

Trelawney, who had been sitting behind him on the two-person broomstick
that had just blazed through Hogwarts burning directly through all the
walls and floors in their way, hastily pulled herself off and then sat
down hard on the floor, a pace away from the red-glowing edges of a
newly made gap in the wall. The woman was still breathing in gasps,
bending over herself as though she were on the verge of vomiting out
something larger than she was.

The Defence Professor had felt the boy’s horror, through the link that
existed between the two of them, the resonance in their magic; and he
had realized that the boy had sought the troll and found it. The Defence
Professor had tried to send an impulse to retreat, to don the Cloak of
Invisibility and flee; but he’d never been able to influence the boy
through the resonance, and hadn’t succeeded that time either.

He’d felt the boy give himself over fully to the killing intention. That
was when the Defence Professor had begun burning through the substance
of Hogwarts, trying to reach the battle in time.

He’d felt the boy exterminate his enemy in seconds.

He’d felt the boy’s dismay as one of his friends died.

He’d felt the fury the boy had directed at some annoyance who was likely
Dumbledore; followed by an unknown resolution whose unyielding hardness
even he found adequate. With any luck, the boy had just discarded his
foolish little reluctances.

Unseen by anyone, the Defence Professor’s lips curved up in a thin
smile. Despite its little ups and downs, on the whole this had been a
surprisingly good day—

“HE IS HERE. THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY STARS IN HEAVEN. HE IS
HERE. HE IS THE END OF THE WORLD.”

90. Roles, Part I

ASIMPLE Innervate from the Headmaster had awakened Fred Weasley,
followed by a preliminary healing Charm for a broken arm and cracked
ribs. Harry’s voice had distantly told the Headmaster about the
Transfigured acid inside the troll’s head (Dumbledore had looked down
over the side of the terrace and made a gesture before returning) and
then about the Weasley twins’ minds having been tampered with, carrying
on a separate conversation that Harry remembered but could not process.

Harry still stood over Hermione’s body, he hadn’t moved from that spot,
thinking as fast as he could through the sense of dissociation and
fragmented time, was there anything he should be doing now, any
opportunities that were passing irrevocably. Some way to reduce the
amount of magical omnipotence that would be required later. A temporal
beacon effect to mark this instant for later time travel, if he some day
found a way to travel back further than six hours. There were theories
of time travel under General Relativity (which had seemed much less
plausible before Harry had run across Time-Turners) and those theories
said you couldn’t go back to before the time machine was built—a
relativistic time machine maintained a continuous pathway through time,
it didn’t teleport anything. But Harry didn’t see anything helpful he
could do using spells in his lexicon, Dumbledore wasn’t being very
cooperative, and in any case this was several minutes after the critical
location within Time.

“Harry,” the Headmaster whispered, laying his hand on Harry’s shoulder.
He had vanished from where he was standing over the Weasley twins and
come into existence beside Harry; George Weasley had discontinuously
teleported from where he was sitting to be kneeling next to his
brother’s side, and Fred was now lying straight with his eyes open and
wincing as he breathed. “Harry, you must go from this place.”

“Hold on,” said Harry’s voice. “I’m trying to think if there’s anything
else I can do.”

The old wizard’s voice sounded helpless. “Harry—I know you do not
believe in souls—but whether Hermione is watching you now, or no, I do
not think she would wish for you to be like this.”

…no, it was obvious.

Harry levelled his wand at Hermione’s body—

“Harry! What are you—”

—and poured everything down his arm into his hand—

“Frigideiro!”

“—doing?”

“Hypothermia,” Harry said distantly, as he staggered. It’d been one of
the spells he and Hermione had experimented on, a lifetime ago, so he
was able to control it precisely, though it had taken a lot of power to
affect that much mass. Hermione’s body should now be at almost exactly
five degrees Celsius. “People have been revived from cold water after
more than thirty minutes without breathing. The cold protects you from
brain damage, you see, it slows everything down. There’s a saying Muggle
doctors have, you’re not dead until you’re warm and dead—I think they
even cool down the patient during some surgeries, if they have to stop
someone’s heart for a while.”

Fred and George started sobbing.

Dumbledore’s face was already streaked with tears. “I’m sorry,” he
whispered. “Harry, I’m so sorry, but you have to stop this.” The
Headmaster took Harry by the shoulders and pulled on him.

Harry allowed himself to be turned away from Hermione’s body, walked
forward as the Headmaster pushed him away from the blood. The Cooling
Charm would buy him time. Hours at least, maybe days if he could manage
to keep casting the spell on Hermione or if they stored her body
somewhere cold.

Now there was time to think.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva had seen Albus’s face and she’d known something was wrong; there
had been time for her to wonder what had happened, and even who had
died; her mind flashing to Alastor, to Augusta, to Arthur and Molly, all
the most likely targets at the start of Voldemort’s second rise. She had
thought that she had steeled herself, she had thought herself ready for
the worst.

Then Albus spoke, and all the steel left her.

Not Hermione—no—

Albus gave her a brief space to weep; and then told her that Harry
Potter, who had watched Miss Granger die, had seated himself outside the
infirmary storeroom where Miss Granger’s remains were being kept,
refusing to move from the spot, and telling anyone who spoke to him to
go away so he could think.

The only thing that had elicited any reaction from the boy was when
Fawkes had tried to sing to him; Harry Potter had shrieked at the phœnix
not to do that, his feelings were real, he didn’t want magic trying to
heal them like they were a disease. After that Fawkes had refused to
sing again.

Albus thought that she might have the best chance of reaching Harry
Potter now.

So she had to pull herself together, and clean up her face; there would
be time later for private grief, when her surviving children no longer
needed her.

Minerva McGonagall pulled together the dislocated pieces of herself,
wiped her eyes a final time, and laid her hand on the doorknob of the
infirmary section whose back storeroom was now being used, for the
second time this century and for the fifth time since the castle of
Hogwarts had been raised, as the resting place of a promising young
student.

She opened the door.

Harry Potter’s eyes gazed at her. The boy was sitting on the floor in
front of the door to the back storeroom, and holding his wand in his
lap. If those eyes were grieving, if they were empty, if they were even
broken, it couldn’t be seen from looking at the boy’s face. There were
no dried tears on those cheeks.

“Why are you here, Professor McGonagall?” Harry Potter said. “I told the
Headmaster I’d like to be left alone for a while.”

She couldn’t think of anything to say. To help you—you’re not all right—
but she didn’t know what to say, there was nothing she could imagine
saying that would make things better. She hadn’t planned ahead before
she’d walked into the room, having not been at her best.

“What are you thinking about?” Minerva said. It was the only sentence
that came into her mind. Albus had told her that Harry had been saying,
over and over, that he was thinking; and she had to get Harry talking,
somehow.

Harry stared half at her and half past her, a tension coming into his
face, as she held her breath.

It took a while before Harry spoke.

“I’m trying to think if there’s anything I should be doing right now,”
said Harry Potter. “It’s hard, though. My mind keeps on imagining ways
the past could have gone differently if I’d thought faster, and I can’t
rule out that there might be a key insight in there somewhere.”

“Mr Potter—” she said falteringly. “Harry, I don’t think it’s healthy
for you to be—thinking like that—”

“I disagree. It’s not thinking that gets people killed.” The words were
spoken in a level monotone, as though reciting lines from a book.

“Harry,” she said, hardly even thinking as she said it, “there’s nothing
you could have done—”

Something flickered in Harry’s expression. His eyes seemed to focus on
her for the first time.

“Nothing I could have done?” Harry’s voice rose on the last word.
“Nothing I could have done? I’ve lost track of how many different ways I
could’ve saved her! If I’d asked to have us all given communications
mirrors! If I’d insisted on Hermione being taken out of Hogwarts and put
in a school that isn’t insane! If I’d sneaked out immediately instead of
trying to argue with normal people! If I’d remembered the Patronus
earlier! If I’d thought through possible emergencies and trained myself
to think about Patronuses earlier! Even at the very last minute it might
not have been too late! I killed the troll and turned to her and she was
still ALIVE and I just knelt next to her listening to her last words
like an IDIOT instead of casting the Patronus again and calling
Dumbledore to send Fawkes! Or if I’d just approached the whole problem
from a different angle—if I’d looked for a student with a Time-Turner to
send a message back in time before I found out about anything happening
to her, instead of ending up with an outcome that can’t be altered—I
asked the Headmaster to go back and save Hermione and then fake
everything, fake the dead body, edit everyone’s memories, but Dumbledore
said that he tried something like that once and it didn’t work and he
lost another friend instead. Or if I’d—if only I’d gone too—if, that
night—”

Harry pressed his hands over his face, and when he removed them again,
his face was calm and composed once more.

“Anyway,” said Harry Potter, now in a monotone again, “I don’t want to
repeat that mistake, so I’m going to spend until dinner time thinking if
there’s anything I should be doing. If I haven’t thought of anything by
then I’ll go to dinner and eat. Now please go away.”

She was aware now that tears were sliding down her cheeks, again.
“Harry—Harry, you have to believe that this isn’t your fault!”

“Of course it’s my fault. There’s no-one else here who could be
responsible for anything.”

“No! You-Know-Who killed Hermione!” She was hardly aware of what she was
saying, that she hadn’t screened the room against who might be
listening. “Not you! No matter what else you could’ve done, it’s not you
who killed her, it was Voldemort! If you can’t believe that you’ll go
mad, Harry!”

“That’s not how responsibility works, Professor.” Harry’s voice was
patient, like he was explaining things to a child who was certain not to
understand. He wasn’t looking at her any more, just staring off at the
wall to her right side. “When you do a fault analysis, there’s no point
in assigning fault to a part of the system you can’t change afterwards,
it’s like stepping off a cliff and blaming gravity. Gravity isn’t going
to change next time. There’s no point in trying to allocate
responsibility to people who aren’t going to alter their actions. Once
you look at it from that perspective, you realize that allocating blame
never helps anything unless you blame yourself, because you’re the only
one whose actions you can change by putting blame there. That’s why
Dumbledore has his room full of broken wands. He understands that part,
at least.”

Some distant part of her mind made a note to wait until much later and
then speak sharply to the Headmaster about what he was showing to
impressionable young children. She might even scream at him this time.
She’d been thinking about screaming at him anyway, because of
Miss Granger—

“You’re not responsible,” she said, though her voice trembled. “It’s the
Professors—it’s us who are responsible for student safety, not you.”

Harry’s eyes flicked back to her. “You’re responsible?” There was a
tightness in the voice. “You want me to hold you responsible, Professor
McGonagall?”

She raised her chin and nodded. It would be better, by far, than Harry
blaming himself.

The boy pushed himself up from where he was sitting on the floor, and
took a step forward. “All right, then,” Harry said in a monotone. “I
tried to do the sensible thing, when I saw Hermione was missing and that
none of the Professors knew. I asked for a seventh-year student to go
with me on a broomstick and protect me while we looked for Hermione. I
asked for help. I begged for help. And nobody helped me. Because you
gave everyone an absolute order to stay in one place or they’d be
expelled, no excuses. No matter what else Dumbledore gets wrong, he at
least thinks of his students as people, not animals that have to be
herded into a pen and kept from wandering out. You knew you weren’t any
good at military thinking, your first idea was to have us walking
through the hallways, you knew some students there were better than you
at strategy and tactics, and you still nailed us down in one room
without any discretionary judgement. So when something you didn’t
foresee happened and it would’ve made perfect sense to send out a
seventh-year student on a fast broom to look for Hermione Granger, the
students knew you wouldn’t understand or forgive. They weren’t afraid of
the troll, they were afraid of you. The discipline, the conformity, the
cowardice that you instilled in them delayed me just long enough for
Hermione to die. Not that I should’ve tried asking for help from normal
people, of course, and I will change and be less stupid next time. But
if I were dumb enough to allocate responsibility to someone who isn’t
me, that’s what I’d say.”

Tears were streaming down her cheeks.

“That’s what I’d tell you if I thought you could be responsible for
anything. But normal people don’t choose on the basis of consequences,
they just play roles. There’s a picture in your head of a stern
disciplinarian and you do whatever that picture would do, whether or not
it makes any sense. A stern disciplinarian would order the students back
to their rooms, even if there was a troll roaming the hallways. A stern
disciplinarian would order students not to leave the Hall on pain of
expulsion. And the little picture of Professor McGonagall that you have
in your head can’t learn from experience or change herself, so there
isn’t any point to this conversation. People like you aren’t responsible
for anything, people like me are, and when we fail there’s no-one else
to blame.”

The boy strode forward to stand directly before her. His hand darted
beneath his robes, brought forth the golden sphere that was the
Ministry-issued protective shell of his Time-Turner. He spoke in a dead,
level voice without any emphasis. “This could’ve saved Hermione, if I’d
been able to use it. But you thought it was your role to shut me down
and get in my way. Nobody has died in Hogwarts in fifty years, you said
that when you locked it, do you remember? I should’ve asked again after
Bellatrix Black got loose from Azkaban, or after Hermione got framed for
attempted murder. But I forgot because I was stupid. Please unlock it
now before any of my other friends die.”

Unable to speak, she brought forth her wand and did so, releasing the
time-keyed enchantment she’d laced into the shell’s lock.

Harry Potter flipped open the golden shell, looked at the tiny glass
hourglass within its circles, nodded, and then snapped the case shut.
“Thank you. Now go away.” The boy’s voice cracked again. “I have to
think.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She closed the door behind her, an awful and still mostly-muffled sound
escaping her throat—

Albus shimmered into existence beside her, taking on a brief garish hue
as the Disillusionment wore off.

She did not jump, quite. “I’ve told you, stop doing that,” Minerva said.
Her voice sounded dull in her own ears. “That was private.”

Albus flickered his fingers at the door behind her. “I was afraid
Mr Potter might do you some harm.” The Headmaster paused, then said
quietly, “I am very surprised that you stood there and took that.”

“All I had to do was say ‘Mr Potter’, and he would have stopped.” Her
voice had dropped almost to a whisper. “Just that, and he would have
stopped. And then he would have had no-one to say those awful things to,
no-one at all.”

“I thought Mr Potter’s remarks were entirely unfair and undeserved,”
Albus said.

“If it had been you, Albus, you would not have threatened to expel
anyone leaving the room. Can you honestly tell me otherwise?”

Albus’s brows rose. “Your role in this disaster was tiny, your decisions
quite sensible at the time, and it is only Harry Potter’s perfect
hindsight that lets him imagine otherwise. Surely you are wiser than to
blame yourself for this, Minerva.”

She knew perfectly well that Albus would be placing a picture of
Hermione in that awful room of his, that it would occupy a place of
honour. Albus would hold himself responsible, she was certain, even
though he hadn’t even been in Hogwarts at the time. But not her.

So you also don’t think it’s worth the trouble of holding me
responsible…

She slumped against the nearest wall, trying not to let the tears emerge
again; she’d never seen Albus weep save thrice. “You have always
believed in your students, as I never have. They would not have been
afraid of you. They would have known you would understand.”

“Minerva—”

“I am not fit to succeed you as Headmistress. We both know it.”

“You are wrong,” Albus said quietly. “When the time comes, you will be
the forty-fifth Headmistress of Hogwarts and you will do an excellent
job of it.”

She shook her head. “What now, Albus? If he will not listen to me, then
who?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was perhaps half an hour later. The boy still guarded the door to
where his best friend’s body lay, keeping his vigil. He was staring
downward, at his wand as it lay in his hands. Sometimes his face screwed
up in thought, at other times it relaxed.

Although the door did not open, and there was no sound, the boy looked
up. He composed his face. His voice, when he spoke, was dull. “I don’t
want company.”

The door opened.

The Defence Professor of Hogwarts entered into the room and shut the
door behind him, taking up careful position in a corner between two
walls, as far away from the boy as the room permitted. A sharp sense of
catastrophe had risen in the air between the two of them, and hung there
unchanging.

“Why are you here?” said the boy.

The man tilted his head slightly. Pale eyes examined the boy as though
he were a specimen of life from a distant planet, and correspondingly
dangerous.

“I’ve come to apologize, Mr Potter,” the man said quietly.

“Apologize for what?” the boy said. “Why, what could you have done to
prevent Hermione’s death?”

“I should have thought to check for the presence of yourself,
Mr Longbottom, and Miss Granger, all of whom were obvious next targets,”
the Defence Professor said without hesitation. “Mr Hagrid was not
mentally equipped to command the student contingent. I should have
ignored the Deputy Headmistress’s request for silence, and told her to
leave behind Professor Flitwick, who would have been better able to
defend the students from any threat, and who could have maintained
communication via Patronus.”

“Correct.” The boy’s voice was razor-sharp. “I’d forgotten there was
someone else in Hogwarts who could be responsible for things. So why
didn’t you think of it, Professor? Because I don’t believe that you were
stupid.”

There was a pause, and the boy’s fingers whitened on his wand.

“You did not think of it either, Mr Potter, at the time.” There was a
weariness in the Defence Professor’s voice. “I am smarter than you. I
think faster than you. I am more experienced than you. But the gap
between the two of us is not the same as the gap between us and them. If
you can miss something, then so can I.” The man’s lips twisted. “You
see, I deduced at once that the troll was but a distraction from some
other matter, and of no great importance in itself. So long as nobody
sent the students wandering pointlessly through the halls, or uncaringly
dispatched the young Slytherins to those very dungeons where the troll
had been spotted.”

The boy did not seem to relax. “I suppose that is plausible.”

“In any case,” said the man, “if there is anyone who can be said to be
responsible for Miss Granger’s death, it is myself, not you. It is I,
not you, who should have—”

“I perceive that you have spoken to Professor McGonagall and that she
has given you a script to follow.” The boy did not bother keeping the
bitterness from his voice. “If you have something to say to me,
Professor, say it without the masks.”

There was a pause.

“As you wish,” the Defence Professor said emotionlessly. The pale eyes
stayed keen and sharp. “I do regret that the girl is dead. She was a
good student in my Defence class, and could have been an ally to you
later. I would wish to console you for your loss, but I cannot see how
to go about doing so. Naturally, if I find the ones responsible I shall
kill them. You are welcome to join in should circumstances permit.”

“How touching,” the boy said, his voice cool. “You are not claiming to
have liked Hermione, then?”

“Her charms were lost on me, I suspect. I no longer form such bonds
easily.”

The boy nodded. “Thank you for being honest. Is that all, Professor?”

There was a pause.

“The castle is scarred, now,” said the man standing in the corner.

“What?”

“When a certain ancient device in my possession informed me that
Miss Granger was on the verge of death, I cast that spell of cursed fire
of which I once spoke. I burned through some walls and floors so that my
broomstick could take a more direct path.” The man still spoke
tonelessly. “Hogwarts will not heal such wounds easily, if at all. I
suppose it will be necessary to patch over the holes with lesser
conjurations. I regret that now, since I was in any case too late.”

“Ah,” said the boy. He closed his eyes briefly. “You did want to save
her. You wanted it so strongly that you made some sort of actual effort.
I suppose your mind, if not theirs, would be capable of that.”

A brief, dry smile from the man.

“Thank you for that, Professor. But I would like to be left alone now
until dinner time. You of all people will understand. Is that all?”

“Not quite,” the man said. A tinge of sardonic dryness now returned to
his voice. “You see, based on recent experiences, I am concerned that
you may now intend to do something extremely foolish.”

“Such as what?” said the boy.

“I am not quite sure. Perhaps you have decided that a universe without
Miss Granger is devoid of value, and should be destroyed for the insults
it has dealt you.”

The boy smiled without any humour. “Your own issues are showing,
Professor. I don’t really go in for that sort of thing. Did you, at some
point?”

“Not particularly. I have no great fondness for the universe, but I do
live there.”

There was a pause.

“What are you planning, Mr Potter?” said the man in the corner. “You
have come to some significant resolution, though you are trying to hide
it from me. What do you now intend?”

The boy shook his head. “I’m still thinking, and would like to be left
alone to do it.”

“I recall an offer you once made to me, some months ago,” said the
Defence Professor. “Do you want someone intelligent to talk to? I will
understand if you are not pleasant to be around.”

The boy shook his head again. “No, thank you.”

“Well, then,” said the Defence Professor. “What about someone who is
powerful and not particularly bound by naive scruples?”

There was a hesitation, and then the boy once more shook his head.

“Someone who is knowledgeable of much secret lore, and magics that some
might consider to be unnatural?”

There was a slight narrowing of the boy’s eyes, so imperceptible that
someone else might not have—

“I see,” said the Defence Professor. “Go ahead and ask me about it,
then. I give you my word that I will repeat nothing of it to the
others.”

The boy took a while to speak, and when he did it was in a cracked
voice.

“I mean to bring Hermione back. Because there isn’t an afterlife, and
I’m not about to just let her—just not be—”

The boy pressed his hands over his face, and when he withdrew them, he
once more seemed as dispassionate as the man standing in the corner.

The Defence Professor’s eyes were abstract, and faintly puzzled.

“How?” the man said finally.

“However I have to.”

There was another pause.

“Regardless of the risks,” the man in the corner said. “Regardless of
how dangerous the magic required to accomplish it.”

“Yes.”

The Defence Professor’s eyes were thoughtful. “But what general approach
did you have in mind? I presume that turning her corpse into an Inferius
is not what you—”

“Would she be able to think?” the boy said. “Would her body still
decay?”

“No, and yes.”

“Then no.”

“What of the Resurrection Stone of Cadmus Peverell, if it could be
obtained for you?”

The boy shook his head. “I don’t want an illusion of Hermione drawn from
my memories. I want her to be able to live her life—” the boy’s voice
cracked. “I haven’t decided yet on an object-level angle of attack. If I
have to brute-force the problem by acquiring enough power and knowledge
to just make it happen, I will.”

Another pause.

“And to go about that,” the man in the corner said, “you will use your
favourite tool, science.”

“Of course.”

The Defence Professor exhaled, almost like a sigh. “I suppose that makes
sense of it.”

“Are you willing to help, or not?” the boy said.

“What help do you seek?”

“Magic. Where does it come from?”

“I do not know,” said the man.

“And neither does anyone else?”

“Oh, the situation is far worse than that, Mr Potter. There is hardly a
scholar of the esoteric who has not unravelled the nature of magic, and
every one of them believes something different.”

“Where do new spells come from? I keep reading about someone who
invented a spell to do something-or-other but there’s no mention of
how.”

A shrug of robed shoulders. “Where do new books come from, Mr Potter?
Those who read many books sometimes become able to write them in turn.
How? No-one knows.”

“There are books on how to write—”

“Reading them will not make you a famous playwright. After all such
advice is accounted for, what remains is mystery. The invention of new
spells is a similar mystery of purer form.” The man’s head tilted. “Such
endeavours are dangerous. The saying is that one should either not have
children, or else wait until after they are grown. There is a reason why
so many innovators seem to hail from Gryffindor, rather than Ravenclaw
as might be expected.”

“And the more powerful sorts of magics?” the boy said.

“A legendary wizard might invent one sacrificial ritual in his life, and
pass on the knowledge to his heirs. To try inventing five such would be
suicide. That is why wizards of true power are those who have acquired
ancient lore.”

The boy nodded distantly. “So much for the direct solution, then. It
would’ve been nice to just invent a spell for ‘Raise Dead’, ‘Become God’
or ‘Summon Terminal’. Do you know anything about Atlantis?”

“Only what any scholar knows,” the man said dryly. “If you would like to
hear about the top eighteen standard theories—do not glare at me,
Mr Potter. If it were that simple, I would have done it many years
earlier.”

“I understand. Sorry.”

There was a time of silence. The Defence Professor’s gaze rested on the
boy, the boy stared off seemingly at nothing.

“There’s some magics I mean to learn. Spells I could’ve used earlier
today, if I’d thought to study them beforehand.” The boy’s voice was
cold. “Spells I’ll need, if this sort of thing goes on happening. Most I
expect I can just look up. Some I expect I can’t.”

The Defence Professor inclined his head. “I shall teach you almost any
magic you wish to know, Mr Potter. I do have some limits, but you may
always ask. But what specifically do you seek? You lack the raw power
for the Killing Curse and most other spells deemed forbidden—”

“That spell of cursed fire. I don’t suppose it’s a sacrificial ritual
that even a child could use, if he dared?”

The Defence Professor’s lips twitched. “It requires the permanent
sacrifice of a drop of blood; your body would be lighter by that drop of
blood, from that day forward. Not the sort of thing one would wish to do
often, Mr Potter. Strength of will is demanded for the cursed fire not
to turn upon you and consume you; the usual practice is to first test
one’s will in lesser trials. And although it is not a primary element of
the ritual, I am afraid that it does require more magic than you shall
possess for another few years.”

“Pity,” the boy said. “It would’ve been nice to see the look on the
enemy’s face the next time they tried using a troll.”

The Defence Professor inclined his head, his lips twitching again.

“What about Memory Charms? The Weasley twins were acting oddly and the
Headmaster said he thinks they’ve been Obliviated. It seems to be one of
the enemy’s favourite tricks.”

“Rule Eight,” said the Defence Professor. “Any technique which is good
enough to defeat me once is good enough to learn myself.”

The boy smiled humourlessly. “And I once heard about an adult casting
Obliviate while she was almost completely drained, so it must not take
too much magic to cast. It’s not even considered Unforgiveable, though I
can’t imagine why not. If I could’ve made Mr Hagrid remember a different
set of orders—”

“It is not that straightforward,” said the Defence Professor. “You are
not powerful enough to use the False Memory Charm, and even a simple
Obliviation will stretch the edge of your current stamina. It is a
dangerous art, illegal to use without Ministry authorization, and I
would caution you not to use it under circumstances where it would be
inconvenient to accidentally erase ten years of someone’s life. I wish I
could promise you that I would obtain one of those highly guarded tomes
from the Department of Mysteries, and pass it to you beneath a disguised
cover. But what I must actually tell you is that you will find the
standard introductory text in the north-north-west stacks of the main
Hogwarts library, filed under M.”

“Seriously,” the boy said flatly.

“Indeed.”

“Thank you for your guidance, Professor.”

“Your creativity has become a great deal more practical, Mr Potter,
since I have known you.”

“Thank you for the compliment.” The boy did not look up from where he
was again gazing down at the wand held between his hands. “I would like
to go back to thinking now. Please explain to them on my behalf what
happens if I am disturbed.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The door to the storeroom clicked open, and Professor Quirrell stepped
out. His face had a dead, emotionless look to it; she would have said
that it reminded her of Severus, though Severus had never looked quite
like that.

Even as the door clicked shut again, Minerva had thrown up a wordless
Quieting barrier. The words spilled forth from her rapidly: “How did it
go—you were in there for a while—is Harry talking now?”

Professor Quirrell paced swiftly across the room to the far wall near
the entrance, looked back at her. The emotionlessness slid off his face,
as though he were taking off a mask, leaving behind someone very grim.
“I spoke to Mr Potter as he expected me to speak, and avoided saying
things that would annoy him. I do not think it consoled him. I do not
think I have the knack.”

“Thank you—it is good that he spoke at all—” She hesitated. “What did
Mr Potter say?”

“I am afraid that I promised him not to speak of it. And now… I think
that I must visit the Hogwarts library.”

“The library?”

“Yes,” Professor Quirrell said. An uncharacteristic tension had come
into his voice. “I intend to strengthen the security upon the Restricted
Section with certain precautions of my own devising. The current wards
are a joke. And Mr Potter must be kept out of the Restricted Section at
all costs.”

She stared at the Defence Professor, her heart suddenly in her throat.

Professor Quirrell continued speaking. “You will not tell the boy that I
have said this much to you. You will confirm to Flitwick and Vector that
the boy is to be diverted by the usual evasions if he asks precocious
questions about spell creation. And though it is not my own area of
expertise, Deputy Headmistress, if there is any way you can imagine to
convince the boy to stop sinking further into his grief and madness—any
way at all to undo the resolutions he is coming to—then I suggest you
resort to it immediately.”

91. Roles, Part II

E. Y.: This chapter does not contain a spoiler for any particular Orson
Scott Card novel. It’s a metaphor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHORTLY after, there was another knock upon the storeroom door.

“If you actually care about my mental health,” the boy said without
looking up, “you will go away, leave me alone, and wait for me to come
down to dinner. This isn’t helping.”

The door opened, and the one who had waited outside stepped in.

“Seriously?” the boy said flatly.

The door closed and clicked behind Severus Snape.

The Potions Master of Hogwarts wore none of his customary arrogance, or
even the dispassionate guise that he ordinarily took in the Headmaster’s
office; his gaze was strange, as he looked down upon the boy guarding
that door; his thoughts unfathomable.

“I also cannot imagine what the Deputy Headmistress is thinking,” said
the Potions Master of Hogwarts. “Unless I am meant to serve as a warning
of where it will lead you, if you decide to take the blame for her death
upon yourself.”

The boy’s lips pressed together. “Fine. Let’s just skip ahead to the end
of this conversation. You win, Professor Snape. I concede that you were
more responsible for Lily Potter’s death than I was responsible for
Hermione Granger’s death, and that my guilt can’t stack up to your
guilt. And then I ask you to go, and you tell them that it would
probably be best to let me alone for a while. Are we done?”

“Almost,” the Potions Master said. “I am the one who put the notes under
Miss Granger’s pillow, telling her where to find the fights in which she
intervened.”

The boy did not react to this at all. Finally he spoke. “Because you
dislike bullying.”

“Not that alone.” There was a note of pain in the Potions Master’s voice
that sounded alien to it; it was hard to imagine it being the same acid
voice that instructed children not to stir one more time or they’d blow
off their wrists. “I should have realized it… very much earlier, I
suppose, and yet I did not see it at all, being entirely absorbed in
myself. For me to be placed as Head of Slytherin… it means that Albus
Dumbledore has entirely lost hope that Slytherin House can be helped. I
am certain that Dumbledore must have tried, I cannot imagine that he did
not try, when he first took trust of Hogwarts. It must have been a
severe blow to him, when after that so much of Slytherin answered to the
Dark Lord’s call… he would not have placed me in authority over that
House, acting as I did, unless he had lost all hope.” The Potions
Master’s shoulders fell, beneath his spotted and stained cloak. “But you
and Miss Granger were trying to do something, and the two of you had
even managed to bring over Mr Malfoy and Miss Greengrass, and perhaps
those two could have set a different example… I suppose it was foolish
for me to believe. The Headmaster does not know of what I have done, and
I ask you not to tell him.”

“Why are you telling me this?”

“Matters have become far too serious not to tell someone.” Severus
Snape’s lips twisted. “I have seen enough disastrous plotting, in my
tenure as Head of Slytherin, to know how that sometimes goes. If, in the
future, all should come to light—then at least I have told you, and you
may say as much.”

“Lovely,” the boy said. “Thank you for clearing that up. Is that all?”

“Do you intend to declare that your life is now a ruin and that there is
nothing left for you but vengeance?”

“No. I still have—” The boy cut himself off.

“Then there is very little advice that I can give you,” said Severus
Snape.

The boy nodded distantly. “On Hermione’s behalf, thank you for helping
her with the bullies. She would tell you that it was the right thing to
do. And now I would be much obliged if you could tell them to leave me
alone.”

The Potions Master turned to the door, and when his face was unseen, his
voice came in a whisper. “I truly am sorry for your loss.”

Severus Snape departed.

The boy stared after him, trying to remember, as best as he could at
this distance, words which had been spoken some time earlier.

Your books betrayed you, Potter. They did not tell you the one thing you
needed to know. You cannot learn from books what it is like to lose the
one you love. That is something you could never know without
experiencing it for yourself.

It had gone something like that, the boy thought, if he was remembering
correctly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hours had passed now, in the infirmary section with its closed door and
a body lying in state behind it.

Harry went on staring at his wand, as it lay in his lap. At the tiny
scratches and smudges on the eleven inches of holly, flaws he’d never
looked closely enough to notice before. A quick mental calculation said
there was no reason to worry since if this was six or seven months’
accumulation of damage, then a standard lifetime wouldn’t wear away the
wand entirely. At the time, he probably would’ve worried about his own
Time-Turner being taken away if he’d just openly yelled out ‘Does anyone
have a Time-Turner?’ into the Great Hall, but it would have been easy
enough to pre-commit to, after lunch, finding someone to send Professor
Flitwick a message two hours earlier and then Professor Flitwick
could’ve just gone straight to Hermione, or sent her his raven Patronus,
long before the troll was anywhere near her. Or might that alternate
Harry have already learned it was too late—heard about Hermione’s death
after lunch and before he could buy any messages sent backwards in time?
Maybe a basic guideline of working with time travel was to make sure you
never risked learning you were too late, if you hadn’t yet gone
backwards. There was a tiny chemical burn now on the end of his wand,
presumably from contacting the acid he’d partially Transfigured the
troll’s brain into, but the wand seemed robust against losses of small
amounts of wood. Really the concept of a ‘magic wand’ being required
just got stranger the more you thought about it. Though if spells were
always being invented in some mysterious way, new rituals being carved
as new levers upon the unknown machine, it might just be that people
just kept inventing rituals that involved wands, just like they invented
phrases like ‘Wingardium Leviosa’. It really seemed like magic ought to
be, in some sense, almost arbitrarily powerful, and it certainly would
be convenient if Harry could just bypass whatever conceptual limitation
prevented people from inventing spells like ‘Just Fix Everything
Forever’, but somehow nothing was ever that easy where magic was
concerned. Harry looked at his mechanical watch again, but it still
wasn’t time.

He’d attempted to cast the Patronus Charm, meaning to tell his Patronus
to go to Hermione Granger. Just in case it was all a lie, a False Memory
Charm or one of the who-knew-how-many-ways that wizards could be made to
close their eyes and dream. Just in case the real Hermione was alive and
being held somewhere, despite his feeling her life as it left her. Just
in case there was an afterlife and the True Patronus could reach it.

The spell hadn’t worked though, so that particular test had failed to
provide any evidence, leaving him with the previous, unfavourable prior.

Time passed, and yet more time. From the outside you would’ve just seen
a boy, sitting, staring at his wand with an abstracted gaze, looking at
his watch every two minutes or so.

The door to the infirmary section opened once again.

The boy sitting there looked up with a deadly, chilling glare.

Then the boy’s face cracked in dismay, and he scrambled to his feet.

“Harry,” said the man in the button-down formal shirt and a black
waistcoat thrown over it. His voice was hoarse. “Harry, what’s
happening? The Headmaster of your school—he showed up in those
ridiculous robes at my office and told me that Hermione Granger was
dead!”

A moment later a woman followed the man into the room; she seemed less
confused than the man, less bewildered and more frightened.

“Dad,” the boy said thinly. “Mum. Yes, she’s dead. They didn’t tell you
anything else?”

“No! Harry, what’s happening?”

There was a pause.

The boy slumped back against the wall. “I c-can’t, I can’t, I can’t do
this.”

“What?”

“I can’t pretend to be a little boy, I j-just don’t have the energy
right now.”

“Harry,” the woman said falteringly. “Harry—”

“Dad, you know those fantasy books where the hero has to hide everything
from his parents because they, they wouldn’t understand, they’d react
stupidly and get in the hero’s way? It’s a plot device, right, so that
the hero has to solve everything himself instead of telling his parents.
P-please don’t be that plot device, Dad, or you either, Mum. Just… just
don’t play that role. Don’t be the parents who won’t understand. D-don’t
yell at me and give me parental demands I can’t follow. Because I’ve
wandered into a bloody stupid fantasy novel and now Hermione’s—I j-just
don’t have the energy to deal with it.”

Slowly, as though his limbs were only half-animated, the man in the
black waistcoat knelt down to where Harry was standing, so that his eyes
were level with his son’s. “Harry,” the man said. “I need you to tell me
everything that has happened, right now.”

The boy took a deep breath, swallowed. “They t-tell me the Dark Lord I
defeated may still be alive. Like that’s not the p-plot of a hundred
sodding books, right? So, it could also be that the Headmaster of my
school, who’s the most powerful wizard in the world, has gone insane.
And, and Hermione was framed for an attempted murder just before this,
not that anyone would’ve told her parents about it or anything. The
student she was framed for attempted-murdering was the son of Lucius
Malfoy, who’s the most powerful politician in magical Britain, and used
to be the Dark Lord’s number two. The Defence Professor position at this
school has a curse on it, nobody ever lasts more than a year, they have
a saying that the Defence Professor is always a suspect. This year the
Defence Professor is secretly a mysterious wizard who opposed the Dark
Lord during the last war and may or may not be evil himself. Also the
Potions Master has been pining after Lily Potter for years and might be
behind this whole thing for some twisted psychological reason.” The
boy’s lips pressed together bitterly. “I think that’s most of the bloody
stupid plot.”

The man, who had listened to all this quietly, stood up. He put a gentle
hand on the boy’s shoulder. “That’s enough, Harry,” he said. “I’ve heard
enough. We’re leaving this school right now and taking you with us.”

The woman was looking at the boy, her face asking a question.

The boy gazed back at her and nodded.

The woman’s voice was thin when she spoke. “They won’t let us, Michael.”

“They have no legal right to stop us—”

“Right? You’re Muggles,” said the boy, his smile a grimace. “You have as
much standing in the magical British legal system as mice. No wizard is
going to care about any arguments you make about rights, about fairness,
they won’t even take the time to listen. You don’t have any power, see,
so they don’t have to bother. No, Mum, I’m not smiling like this because
I agree with their Muggle policies, I’m smiling because I disagree with
your children policies.”

“Then,” Professor Michael Verres-Evans said firmly, “we shall see what
the real government has to say about that. I know an MP or three—”

“They’ll say, you’re crazy, have a nice stay in this asylum. That’s
assuming the Ministry Obliviators don’t get to you first and erase your
memories. They do that to Muggles a lot, I hear. I figure the real
higher-ups in our government have formed some cosy accommodations of
their own. Maybe they get a few healing Charms now and then, if someone
important manages to get cancer.” The boy gave that twisted smile again.
“And that’s the situation, Dad, as Mum already knows. They’d never have
brought you here or told you anything, if there was a single thing you
could do about it.”

The man’s mouth opened but no words came out, as though he had been
reading from a script which described what a concerned parent ought to
do in this sort of situation, and this script had suddenly arrived at a
blank spot.

“Harry,” the woman said falteringly.

The boy looked at her.

“Harry, did something happen to you? You seem… different…”

“Petunia!” the man said, his tongue apparently working once more. “Don’t
say such things! He’s under stress, that’s all.”

“Well, Mum, you see—” The boy’s voice cracked. “Are you sure you want
this all at once, Mum?”

The woman nodded, though she didn’t speak.

“I’ve got… you know how that school psychiatrist thought I had anger
management problems? Well—” The boy stopped, and swallowed. “I don’t
know how to explain this to you, Mum. It’s something magical instead.
Probably something to do with whatever happened on the night my parents
died. I have… well, I was calling it a mysterious dark side and I know
it sounds like a joke and I did check with… with an ancient telepathic
magical hat to make sure my scar wasn’t actually inhabited by the Dark
Lord’s spirit and it said that there was only one person under its brim
and I don’t think wizards have actual souls anyway since they can still
suffer from brain damage, only—”

“Harry, slow down!” said the man.

“—only, only whatever it is, it’s still real, there’s something inside
me, it gave me willpower when things were bad, I could face down
anything so long as I was angry, Snape, Dumbledore, the entire
Wizengamot, my dark side wasn’t afraid of anything but Dementors. And I
wasn’t stupid, I knew that there might be a price for using my dark side
and I kept on looking to see what the price might be. It didn’t change
my magic, it didn’t seem to cause permanent alignment shift, it didn’t
try to take me away from my friends or anything like that, so I kept on
using it whenever I had to and I only figured out too late what the
price really was—” The boy’s voice had become almost a whisper. “I only
figured out today… every time I call on it… it uses up my childhood. I
killed the thing that got Hermione. And it wasn’t my dark side that did
it, it was me. Oh, Mum, Dad, I’m sorry.”

There was a long silence filled with the sound of broken masks.

“Harry,” the man said, kneeling down again, “I need you to start over
from the beginning and explain that much more slowly.”

The boy spoke.

The parents listened.

Some time later, the father stood up.

The boy looked up at him, grimacing in bitter anticipation.

“Harry,” the man said, “Petunia and I are going to get you out of here
as quickly as possible—”

“Don’t,” the boy said warningly. “I mean it, Dad. The Ministry of Magic
isn’t something you can stand up to. Pretend they’re the tax office or
the dean or something else that won’t brook any challenge to their
dominance. In magical Britain you’re only allowed to remember what the
government thinks you should remember, and remembering the existence of
magic or that you have a son named Harry is a privilege, not a right.
And if they did that I’d crack and turn the Ministry into a giant
flaming crater. Mum, you know the score, you absolutely have to stop Dad
from trying anything stupid.”

“And son—” The man rubbed at his temples. “Maybe I shouldn’t say this
now… but are you sure that what you’re talking about is really a magical
dark side, and not something normal for a boy your age?”

“Normal,” the boy said with elaborate patience. “Normal how, exactly? I
could check again, but I’m reasonably sure there wasn’t anything about
this in Childcraft: A Guide For Parents. My dark side isn’t just an
emotional state, it makes me smarter. In some ways, anyhow. You can’t
just pretend yourself smarter.”

The man rubbed at his head again. “Well… there’s a certain well-known
phenomenon wherein children undergo a biological process which can
sometimes make them angry and dark and grim, and this process also
significantly increases their intelligence and their height—”

The boy slumped back against the wall. “No, Dad, it’s not that I’m
turning into a teenager. I checked with my brain and it still thinks
that girls are icky. But if that’s what you want to pretend, then fine.
Maybe I’m better off with you not believing me. I just—” The boy’s voice
choked. “I just couldn’t stand lying about it.”

“Adolescence doesn’t necessarily work like that, Harry. It may still
take a while for you to notice girls. If, in fact, you haven’t noticed
one alrea—” and the man abruptly stopped.

“I didn’t like Hermione in that way,” the boy whispered. “Why does
everyone keep thinking it has to be about that? It’s disrespectful to
her, to think someone could only like her in that way.”

The man swallowed visibly. “Anyway, son, you keep yourself safe while we
work on getting you out of here, is that understood? Don’t you go
actually thinking that you’ve turned to the dark side. I know you’ve
had, ah, what I used to call your Ender Wiggin moments—”

“I think we are now well past Ender and on to Ender after the buggers
kill Valentine.”

“Language!” said the woman, and then her hand flew to cover her mouth.

The boy spoke wearily. “Not that kind of bugger, Mum. They’re insectoid
aliens—never mind.”

“Harry, that’s exactly what I’m saying you shouldn’t think,” Professor
Verres-Evans said firmly. “You’re not to go believing that you’re
turning evil. You are not to hurt anyone, place yourself in harm’s way,
or mess around with any sort of black magic whatsoever, while your Mum
and I work on extracting you from this situation. Is that clear, son?”

The boy closed his eyes. “That’d be wonderful advice, Dad, if only I
were in a comic book.”

“Harry—” the man began.

“Police can’t do that. Soldiers can’t do that. The most powerful wizard
in the world couldn’t do that, and he tried. It’s not fair to the
innocent bystanders to play at being Batman if you can’t actually
protect everyone under that code. And I’ve just proven that I can’t.”

Beads of sweat were glistening on Professor Michael Verres-Evans’s
forehead. “Now you listen to me. No matter what you’ve read in books,
you aren’t supposed to be protecting anyone! Or involving yourself in
anything dangerous! Absolutely anything dangerous whatsoever! Just stay
out of the way of everything, every bit of craziness going on in this
madhouse, while we get you out of here the first instant we possibly
can!”

The boy looked searchingly at his father, then his mother. Then he
looked at his wristwatch again.

“Excellent point,” said the boy.

The boy marched over to the door leading outward, and flung it open.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The door flew open with a crack that caused Minerva to jump, and before
she had time to think, Harry Potter marched out of the room, glaring
directly at her.

“You brought my parents here,” the Boy-Who-Lived said. “To Hogwarts.
Where You-Know-Who or someone is lurking around, targeting my friends.
What exactly were you thinking?”

She did not reply that she had been thinking about Harry sitting in
front of the door to the storeroom containing Hermione’s body, refusing
to move.

“Who else knows about this?” Harry Potter demanded. “Did anyone see them
with you?”

“The Headmaster brought them here—”

“I want them out of here immediately before anyone else notices,
especially You-Know-Who, but also including Professor Quirrell or
Professor Snape. Please send your Patronus to the Headmaster and tell
him that he needs to bring it back at once. Do not mention my parents by
name, or as people, in case somebody else is listening.”

“Indeed,” said Professor Verres-Evans, nodding sternly along with this
from where he stood directly behind the boy, Petunia a step behind him.
His hand rested firmly on Harry’s shoulder. “We’ll finish talking to our
son at home.”

“A moment, please,” Minerva said in reflexive politeness. Her first try
at casting the Patronus failed, a disadvantage of that Charm under
certain circumstances. It wasn’t the first time she’d done it so, but
she seemed to have lost some of the knack—

Minerva shut the thought down and concentrated.

When the message was sent, she turned back to Professor Verres-Evans.
“Sir,” she said, “I’m afraid that Mr Potter must not leave the Hogwarts
School—”

By the time Albus finally arrived, there was shouting, the Muggle man
having given up on dignity. At least there was shouting on one side of
the argument. Minerva’s heart wasn’t in it. The truth was that she
couldn’t believe the words coming out of her mouth.

When the Professor turned to argue with the Headmaster, Harry Potter,
who had remained silent through this, spoke up. “Not here,” said Harry.
“You can argue with him anywhere but Hogwarts, Dad. Mum, please, please
make sure that Dad doesn’t try anything that will get him in trouble
with the Ministry.”

Michael Verres-Evans’s face screwed up. He turned, looked at Harry
Potter. When his voice came out it was hoarse, accompanied by water in
his eyes. “Son—what are you doing?”

“You know perfectly well what I’m doing,” Harry Potter said. “You read
those comic books long before you gave them to me. I’ve been through a
bunch of crap, matured a bit, and now I’m protecting my relatives.
Actually, it’s simpler than that, you know what I’m doing because you
tried to do the same thing. I’m having my loved ones taken out of
Hogwarts immediately, that’s what I’m doing. Headmaster, please get them
out of here before You-Know-Who discovers their presence and marks them
for death.”

Michael Verres-Evans began a frantic dash toward Harry, and then all
motion stopped with the Muggle man leaning forward in his flight.

“I am sorry,” the Headmaster said quietly. “We shall speak more soon.
Minerva, I was with the others when you called, they are waiting in your
office.”

The Headmaster passed forwards like he was gliding, until he stood in
the midst of where the man and woman stood frozen; and there was another
flash of flame.

Motion resumed.

Minerva looked at Harry.

Words did not come to her.

“Clever move, bringing them here,” Harry Potter said. “Probably damaged
our relationship permanently. All I wanted was to be bloody left alone
until bloody dinner time. Which,” the boy looked at his wristwatch, “it
now is anyway. I’m going to go say goodbye to Hermione by myself, which
I promise will take less than two minutes, and then after that I’ll come
out and go eat something like I would have done regardless. Do not
disturb me for those two bloody minutes or I will snap and try to kill
someone, I mean it, Professor.”

The boy turned and strode into the small room, opened the rear door to
where Hermione Granger’s body was being kept, and strode inside before
she could think to speak. Through the doorway she saw a flash of a sight
she knew no child ought to see—

The door slammed shut.

She started forwards, unthinking.

Halfway to the door, she stopped herself.

Her mind was still slow, and hurting, and the part of her that Harry
Potter would have called the picture of a stern disciplinarian was
lifelessly mouthing words about inappropriate behaviour from children.
The rest of her didn’t think it was a good idea to leave any child, even
Harry Potter, alone in a room with the bloody corpse of his best friend.
But the act of opening the door, or asserting any sort of authority, did
not seem to her wise. There was no right thing to do, and no right thing
to say; or if there was any right path, she did not know it.

Very slowly, a minute and a half passed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the door opened again, Harry seemed to have changed, as though that
minute and a half had passed over the course of lifetimes.

“Seal up the room,” Harry said quietly, “and let’s go, Professor
McGonagall.”

She walked over to the storeroom door. She wasn’t quite able to stop
herself from looking in, and saw the dried blood, the sheet covering the
lower half, the upper body waxy and doll-like, and a glimpse of Hermione
Granger’s closed eyes. Something inside her began its weeping all over
again.

She closed the door.

Her fingers moved upon her wand, her mouth spoke words without thought,
Charms and wards to seal the room against entry.

“Professor McGonagall,” Harry said in a strange voice, as if by rote,
“do you have the rock? The rock that the Headmaster gave me? I should
Transfigure it into a jewel again, since it did prove useful.”

Automatically her eyes went to the ring on Harry’s left pinky finger,
noting the emptiness of the setting where the jewel should have been. “I
shall mention it to the Headmaster,” her tongue replied.

“Is that a usual tactic, by the way?” Harry said, voice still odd.
“Carrying something large Transfigured into something small to use as a
weapon? Or is that a usual exercise for Transfiguration practice?”

Distantly, she shook her head.

“Well, let’s go, then.”

“I have—” her voice stopped. “I’m afraid I have something else which I
must do, now. Will you be all right on your own, and will you promise to
go to the Great Hall directly and eat something, Mr Potter?”

The boy promised (barring exceptional and unforeseen circumstances, a
clause with which she did not argue) and then walked out of the room.

What lay ahead of her… would be no easier, certainly, and might well be
harder.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva walked to her office at a swift pace; not slowly, for that would
have been a discourtesy.

Professor McGonagall opened the door to her office.

“Madam Granger,” her voice said, “Mr Granger, I am so terribly sorry
for—”

92. Roles, Part III

THERE was nothing left to do.

There was nothing left to plan.

There was nothing left to think.

Into that emptiness rose the new worst memory—

The Boy-Who-Lived-Unlike-His-Best-Friend trudged the long, echoing
corridors toward the Great Hall. With all his energies of thought
exhausted, his mind was starting to throw out thoughts like an image of
Hermione walking beside him and wordless concepts like That will never
happen again until another part yelled No and shouted it down with
determination to bring her back, only that part’s voice was getting
tired and the other part seemed tireless. Another part of his mind
insisted on reviewing what he’d said to Professor McGonagall and Dad and
Mum, even though he’d only been trying to get them out of there as
quickly as possible and had been running on limited mental energy. As
though somehow he could have done better, by an act of his defective
will. What would be left of his relationship with his parents now, Harry
couldn’t guess.

He came finally to a junction where there waited an older boy in
green-fringed black robes, silently reading a textbook, on the path that
anyone would pick if they wanted to intercept someone going from the
healer’s chambers to the Great Hall.

Harry was wearing the Cloak of Invisibility, of course, he’d put it on
after leaving the office, rendering himself immune to almost all forms
of magical detection. There was no point in making it easy for anyone
trying to find him and kill him. And Harry was almost set to continue
past without bothering to find out what was going on, when he recognized
the Slytherin boy’s face.

Realization dawned on Harry then. Of course, one of the students who had
stayed in school over the Easter holiday would naturally have been—

“You were waiting for me,” Harry said out loud, without removing the
Cloak.

The Slytherin boy jerked back, hitting his head against the wall, his
fifth-year Charms textbook dropping from his hands, before he looked up
with wide eyes.

“You’re—”

“Invisible. Yes. Say what you mean to say.”

Lesath Lestrange scrambled to his feet, a position of attention, then
blurted out, “My lord, did I do the right thing—I thought you would not
wish me to step forward before all those others, that they might suspect
our connection—I thought, surely if you wished my help you would call on
me—”

It was amazing how many different ways there were to kill your best
friend by being stupid.

“I—” Lesath hesitated, then said in a small voice, “I was wrong, wasn’t
I?”

“You acted exactly as you should have, under the circumstances. It is I
who was a fool.”

“I’m sorry, my lord,” whispered Lesath.

“If you had come with me, would you have been able to kill the troll?”
It wasn’t even the correct question, the correct question was whether
Harry himself would have considered Lesath as sufficient and flown out
sixty seconds earlier, but still…

“I… I’m not sure, my lord… I am not much welcome to duelling practices
in Slytherin, I have not learned the gestures to the Killing
Curse—should I study those arts to better serve you, my lord?”

“I continue to insist that I am not your lord,” Harry said.

“Yes, my lord.”

“Although,” Harry said, “and this is not any kind of order, just a
remark, anyone ought to know how to defend themselves, especially you.
I’m sure the Defence Professor would help you with that on general
principles, if you asked.”

Lesath Lestrange bowed and said, “Yes, my lord, I will follow your
orders if I can, my lord.”

Harry would have complained about being misunderstood, if he hadn’t been
understood perfectly.

Lesath left.

Harry stared at the wall.

He’d honestly thought that he’d already figured out all the different
ways that he’d been stupid, after spending half a day thinking about it.

Apparently this had just been more overconfidence on his part.

Do we understand what we did wrong? his Slytherin side said coldly.

Yes, Harry thought.

Your ethical qualms don’t even make sense. You’re not tricking Lesath.
You did exactly what Lesath thinks you did. You wouldn’t have to make
excuses for why Lesath was helping you, you could just say you were
calling in the debt from rescuing him from bullies, there were six
witnesses to that. Hermione died because you forgot about an extremely
valuable resource, and you forgot about Lesath because… why?

Because having Lesath Lestrange for a minion seemed sort of
Dark-Lordish? Hufflepuff said in a small mental voice. I mean… that
decision was probably mostly me…

Harry’s Slytherin side didn’t answer that in words, just radiated
contempt and flashed an image of Hermione’s corpse.

Stop it! Harry screamed internally.

Next time, Slytherin said icily, I suggest that we spend more time
worrying about what is efficient and effective, and less time worrying
about what seems sort of Dark-Lordish.

Point made, Harry thought, I will.

No, you won’t, said Slytherin. You’ll come up with more rationalisations
for your petty qualms. You’ll start listening to me after your next
friend dies.

Harry was starting to worry that he was going insane. The conversations
he had with the voices in his head weren’t usually like this.

The Boy-Who-Lived

pain

Harry Verres trudged on alone

hurts

Harry walked on through the silent corridors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“How is Mr Potter doing?” demanded Professor Quirrell. There was a
tension about the man, you could not quite call it concern, more like an
ambusher measuring the time to strike. The Grangers had hardly left with
Madam Pomfrey before the Defence Professor had knocked upon the door to
her office and then entered without waiting for her answer, and spoken
before she could say a word. Part of Minerva wondered distantly whether
Harry Potter had picked up that habit from his Defence Professor, being
unaware of others’ pain when there was something else on his mind, or if
it was only a childish flaw which this man had somehow failed to grow
out of.

“Mr Potter has ceased guarding Miss Granger’s body,” she said, putting
some of the chill she felt into her voice. She felt certain that the
Defence Professor was not experiencing as much grief as she was, the man
had spoken not a single word of Hermione Granger. For him to put demands
on her—“I believe he has gone down to dinner.”

“I am not asking after the boy’s physical state! Have you—has he—”
Professor Quirrell made a sharp gesture, as though to indicate a concept
for which he had no words.

“Not particularly,” she said. She was around thirty seconds away from
ordering the Defence Professor out of her office.

Professor Quirrell began to pace within the small confines of her
office. “Miss Granger was the only one whose worries he truly
heeded—with her gone—all checks on the boy’s recklessness are removed. I
see it now. Who else is there? Mr Longbottom? Mr Potter does not pretend
that they are peers. Flitwick? His goblin blood would only cry for
vengeance. Mr Malfoy, if he were returned? To what end? Snape? A walking
disaster. Dumbledore? Pfah. Events are already set for catastrophe, they
must be steered along some course they would not naturally go. Who might
Mr Potter heed, who would not ordinarily speak to him? Cedric Diggory
has taught him, but what would Mr Diggory say in advice? An unknown.
Mr Potter spent long in speech with Remus Lupin. To him I have paid
little heed. Would Lupin know the words to speak, the act which must be
done, the sacrifice which must be made to change the boy’s course?”
Professor Quirrell whirled on her. “Did Remus Lupin comfort those in
grief or stay those moved to rash deeds, during his time with the Order
of the Phœnix?”

“It is not a poor thought,” she said slowly. “I believe that Mr Lupin
was often a voice of restraint to James Potter in his Hogwarts days.”

“James Potter,” said Professor Quirrell, his eyes narrowing. “The boy is
not much like James Potter. Are you confident in the success of this
plan? No, that is the wrong question, we are not limited to a single
plan. Are you certain that this plan will be enough, that we need essay
no others? Asked in such fashion, the question answers itself. The path
leading to disaster must be averted along every possible point of
intervention.” The Defence Professor had resumed pacing the confines of
her office, reaching one wall, turning on his heel, pacing to the other.

“My apologies, Professor,” she did not bother keeping the sharpness from
her voice, “but I have quite reached my limits for the day. You may go.”

“You.” Professor Quirrell spun, and she found herself gazing directly
into eyes of icy blue. “You would be the first one I would think of
after Miss Granger, to stay the boy from a folly. Have you already done
your utmost? Of course you have not.”

How dare he suggest that. “If you have nothing more to say, Professor,
then you will go.”

“Has your confederacy deduced who I really am?” The words were spoken
with deceptive mildness.

“Yes, in fact. Now—”

Pure magic, pure power crashed into the room like a flash of lightning,
like a thunderclap echoing about her ears that deafened her other
senses, the papers on her desk blown aside not by any conjured wind but
by the sheer raw force of arcane might.

Then the power subsided, leaving only Hermione Granger’s death
certificates drifting down through the air to the floor.

“I am David Monroe, who fought Voldemort,” the man said, still in mild
tones. “Heed my words. The boy cannot be allowed to continue in this
state of mind. He will become dangerous. It is possible that you have
already done everything you can. Yet I find this a very rare event
indeed, and more often said than done. I suspect rather that you have
only done what you customarily do. I cannot truly comprehend what drives
others to break their bounds, since I never had them. People remain
surprisingly passive when faced with the prospect of death. Fear of
public ridicule or losing one’s livelihood is more likely to drive men
to extremes and the breaking of their customary habits. On the other
side of the war, the Dark Lord had excellent results from the Cruciatus
Curse, judiciously used on Marked servants who cannot escape punishment
except by success, with no reasonable efforts accepted. Imagine their
state of mind within yourself, and ask yourself whether you have truly
done all that you can to wrench Harry Potter from his course.”

“I am a Gryffindor and not much given to being moved by fear,” she
snapped back. “You will exercise courtesy within my office!”

“I find fear an excellent motivation, and indeed it is fear that moves
me now. You-Know-Who, for all his horror, still abided by certain
boundaries. It is my professional judgement, speaking as a learned
wizard almost on par with Dumbledore or He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, that
the boy could join the ranks of those whose rituals are inscribed upon
the tombstones of countries. This is not an idle worry, McGonagall, I
have already heard words to produce the gravest apprehensions.”

“Are you mad? You think that Mr Potter could—this is ridiculous.
Mr Potter cannot possibly—”

A wordless image crossed her mind of a patch of glass on a steel ball.

“—Mr Potter would not do such a thing!”

“His deliberate choice is not required. Wizards rarely set out to invoke
their own dooms. Mr Potter may not strike you as malicious. Does he
strike you as reckless once he is resolved upon a goal? I say again that
I have specific reason for the gravest possible concerns!”

“Have you spoken to the Headmaster of this?” she said slowly.

“That would be worse than pointless. Dumbledore cannot reach the boy. At
best he is wise enough to know this and make things no worse. I lack the
requisite frame of mind. You are the one who—but I see that you still
look for others to save you.” The Defence Professor turned from her, and
strode to the door. “I think I shall consult with Severus Snape. The man
may be a walking disaster, but he knows the fact, and he may possess a
greater understanding of that boy’s mood. As for you, madam, imagine
yourself at the end of your life, knowing that Britain—but no, Britain
is not your true country, is it? Imagine yourself at the end of your
life as the darkness eats through the fading walls of Hogwarts, knowing
that your students will die with you, remembering this day and realizing
there was something else you could have done.”

93. Roles, Part IV

HARRY had walked into the Great Hall, looked around only once, grabbed
enough calories to sustain himself, walked out, put on his Cloak again
and found a small random corner in which to eat. Seeing the students at
their tables—

Feeling revulsion when you look at other humans is not a good sign,
Hufflepuff said. It’s not reasonable to blame them for having not had
your opportunities to learn what you’ve learned. Inaction in emergencies
has nothing to do with people being selfish. Normalcy bias, like that
plane crash in Tener-something where a few people ran out and escaped
but most people just sat in their seats not moving while their plane was
literally on fire. Look at how long you took to really start moving.

It serves no useful purpose to hate, said Gryffindor. It’s just going to
damage your altruism.

Try to figure out a training method you could use to prevent this from
happening next time, said Ravenclaw.

I’ll go ahead and register the experimental prediction, said Slytherin,
that we’ll always observe exactly what would be predicted on the
hypothesis that people cannot be saved, cannot be taught, and will never
help us with anything important. Also, we need some way of keeping track
of all the times I’m right.

Harry ignored the voices in his head and just ate slices of toast as
fast as he could. It wasn’t proper nutrition as a general policy, but
one-time exceptions wouldn’t hurt so long as he made them up the next
day.

In mid-bite, the blazing silver silhouette of a phœnix flew in from
nowhere and said, in the voice of a tired old man, “Please remove your
Cloak, Harry, I have a letter to deliver to you.”

Harry coughed for a bit, swallowed some toast which had gone down the
wrong way, stood up, took off the Cloak of Invisibility, said aloud
“Tell Dumbledore I said fine,” and then sat down and continued to eat
his toast.

The toast had all gone by the time Albus Dumbledore walked up to Harry’s
nook, carrying folded sheets of paper in his hand; real paper, with
lines, not wizard’s parchment.

“Is that—” Harry said.

“From your father, and from your mother,” said the old wizard.
Wordlessly, Dumbledore handed over the folded sheets, and wordlessly
Harry accepted them. The old wizard hesitated, then said quietly, “The
Defence Professor has told me to restrain my counsel, and I thought the
same thing myself when given time to think. I have always taken too long
to learn the virtues of silence. But if I am mistaken, you need only say
the word—”

“You’re not mistaken,” Harry said. He looked down at the folded, lined
papers, feeling the sickness in his gut that was how his body indicated
a strong pessimistic prediction. His parents wouldn’t actually disown
him, and there wasn’t much they could do to him (some part of himself
was still afraid in a very visceral way of television privileges being
taken away, no matter how little sense that made now). But he had
stepped outside the role that parents would expect of children who, in
their internal beliefs, were lower on the pecking order. It would be
stupid to expect anything except complete indignant fury, all-out
righteous rage, when you acted like that to someone who thought they
were dominant over you.

“After you read it,” the Headmaster said, “I believe that you should
come to the Great Hall at once, Harry. There is an announcement which
you will wish to hear.”

“I’m not interested in funerals—”

“No. Not that. Please, Harry, come as soon as you are done reading, and
do so without your Cloak. Will you?”

“Yes.”

The old wizard left.

Harry had to force himself to open up the letter. The important thing
was keeping your vulnerable friends and relations out of harm’s way, it
might be a cliche but so far as Harry could tell the logic was valid.
Damaged relationships could be repaired later.

The first letter said, in script handwriting that required a careful
focus for Harry to read,

Son,

No matter what you’ve read in books, keeping us out of harm’s way is not
as important as having adults who can help when you’re in trouble. You
decided without allowing us a word in edgeways that we’d abandon you
because of your ‘dark side’. The ghost of Shakespeare knows that I’ve
seen things in this last year that were not dreamt of in my
philosophy—sometimes I wonder if your Mum isn’t just humouring me and
the authorities took you away when I started thinking you were a
magic-user—so I can’t deny that it’s possible you’ve managed to develop
some… I’m not quite sure what to call it, but ‘dark side’ seems
premature if we don’t know what’s happening. Are you sure it’s not a
burgeoning telepathic talent and you’re just picking up on the minds of
other wizards around you? Their thoughts might seem evil to a child who
grew up in a saner civilization. These are ungrounded speculations, I
admit, but you shouldn’t jump to conclusions either.

The two most important things I have to tell you are this. First, son, I
have every confidence in your ability to stay on the Light Side of the
Force so long as you choose to, and I have every confidence that you
will choose to. If there’s some evil spirit whispering horrible
suggestions in your ears, just ignore the suggestions. I do feel the
need to emphasize that you should exercise special caution to ignore
this evil spirit even if it is suggesting what seem like wonderful
creative ideas and I hope I do not need to remind you about the Incident
with the Science Project which would, I admit, make a deal more sense if
you were struggling with demonic possession.

The second thing I have to say is that you do not need to fear that Mum
or I are going to abandon you because of your ‘dark side’. We may not
have expected you to gain magical powers or develop an affinity for
black magic, but we did expect you to become a teenager. Which, if you
think about it from your poor father’s perspective, is already a
sufficiently worrying prospect regarding a child who, by the age of
nine, had been party to the summoning of a total of five fire engines.
Children grow up. I won’t lie to you and say that you will feel as close
to us at 20 as you do now. But your Mum and I will feel just as close to
you when we are old and grey and bothering the nursing-home robots.
Children always grow up and away from their parents, and the parents
always follow them from behind, offering helpful advice. Children grow
up, and their personalities change, and they do things that their
parents wish they would not do, and they act disrespectfully toward
their parents and have them hauled out of their magical schools, and the
parents go on loving them anyway. It is Nature’s way. Though in the
event that you have not yet hit puberty and your teenage years are
proportionately worse than this, we reserve the right to reconsider this
sentiment.

No matter what is happening, remember that we love you and will always
love you no matter what. I don’t know if our love has any magical power
under your rules, but if it does, don’t hesitate to call on it.

With all of this said… Harry, what you did there is not acceptable. I
think you know that. And I also know that it is not the time to lecture
you on it. But you must write and tell us what is happening. I can
understand very well why you’d want us taken out of your school at once,
and I know we can’t force you to do anything, but please, Harry, be
reasonable and realize how terrified we must be.

I would like to tell you that you are absolutely forbidden to mess
around with any magic that the adults around you consider the least bit
unsafe, but for all I know, the teachers at your school are giving
everyone lessons in advanced necromancy every Monday. Please, please
exercise as much caution as your situation permits, whatever your
situation may be. Despite your very hurried summary we don’t have the
slightest idea what is happening and I hope that you will write us as
much as you can. It is clear that you are, at least in some ways,
growing up, and I will try not to act like the children’s-book parent
who only makes things worse—though I hope you appreciate how hard this
is—and your Mum has said a number of frightening things to me about how
wizardry stays secret and how I might get you into trouble by making
waves. I cannot tell you to avoid anything unsafe, because your school
is unsafe and your Headmaster will not let you leave. I can’t tell you
that you shouldn’t take responsibility for anything happening around
you, because for all I know there are other children in trouble. But
remember that it is not your moral responsibility to protect any adults,
their place is to protect you, and every good adult would agree with
that. Please write and tell us more as soon as you can.

Both of us are desperate to help. If there is anything at all that we
can do, please let us know at once. There is nothing which can happen to
us which would be worse than learning that something had happened to
you.

Love,

Dad.

The last page said only,

You promised me that you wouldn’t let magic take you away from me. I
didn’t raise you to be a boy who would break a promise to his Mum. You
must come back safely, because you promised.

Love,

Mum.

Slowly, Harry lowered the letters and began to walk towards the Great
Hall. His hands were shaking, his whole body was shaking, and it seemed
to be taking a very great deal of effort not to cry; which he knew
wordlessly that he must not do. He hadn’t cried through all of the day.
And he wouldn’t cry. Crying was the same as admitting defeat. And this
wasn’t over. So he wouldn’t cry.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The food served in the Great Hall that evening was plain that night,
toast and butter and jam, water and orange juice, oatmeal and other
simple fare, without dessert. Some students had worn simple black robes
without their House colours. Others had still worn theirs. It should
have been cause for argument, but there was instead a quietness, the
sound of people eating without talking. It took two sides to make a
debate, and one of the sides, this night, was not much interested in
debating.

Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall sat at the Head Table and did not
eat. She should have. Perhaps she would in a short while. But she could
not force herself to do it now.

For a Gryffindor there was only one path. It had taken Minerva only a
short time to remember that, when after the Defence Professor’s urgings
her mind had stayed empty of clever plots to try. That was not a
Gryffindor’s way; or perhaps she ought to say only that it was not her
way, Albus did seem to try his hand at plotting… and yet when she
thought back on their history, there were no plots at the moment of
crisis, no cleverness and games in the last resort. For Albus
Dumbledore, as for her, the rule in extremis was to decide what was the
right thing to do, and do it no matter the cost to yourself. Even if it
meant breaking your bounds, or changing your role, or letting go of your
picture of yourself. That was the last resort of Gryffindor.

Through a side entrance of the Great Hall she saw Harry Potter quietly
slip in.

It was time.

Professor Minerva McGonagall rose from her chair, straightened the worn
point on her hat, walked slowly to the lectern before the Head Table.

The sounds in the Great Hall, already muted, fell away entirely as all
students turned to look at her.

“By now you have all heard,” she said, her voice not quite steady. That
Hermione Granger is dead. She didn’t say those words aloud, since they
had all heard. “Somehow, a troll was infiltrated into the castle
Hogwarts without alarm from our ancient wards. Somehow this troll
succeeded in injuring a student, without alarm from the wards until the
point of her death. Investigations are underway to determine how this
has occurred. The Board of Governors is meeting to determine how
Hogwarts will respond. In due time justice shall be served. Meanwhile
there is another matter of justice, which must be handled at once.
George Weasley, Fred Weasley, please come forward to stand before us
all.”

The Weasley twins exchanged glances where they sat at the Gryffindor
table, and then stood up and walked toward her, slowly, reluctantly; and
Minerva realized then that the Weasley twins thought that they were to
be expelled.

They honestly thought that she would expel them.

That was what the picture of Professor McGonagall who lived in her head
had wrought.

The Weasley twins walked over to the lectern, looking up at her with
faces that were frightened, but resolute; and she felt something in her
heart break a little further.

“I am not going to expel you,” she said, and was saddened further by the
surprised look on their faces. “Fred Weasley, George Weasley, turn and
face your classmates, let them see you.”

Still looking surprised, the Weasley twins did so.

She drew up all the steel in her heart, and said what was right.

“I am ashamed,” said Minerva McGonagall, “of the events of this day. I
am ashamed that there were only two of you. Ashamed of what I have done
to Gryffindor. Of all the Houses, it should have been Gryffindor to help
when Hermione Granger was in need, when Harry Potter called for the
brave to aid him. It was true, a seventh-year could have held back a
mountain troll while searching for Miss Granger. And you should have
believed that the Head of House Gryffindor,” her voice broke, “would
have believed in you. If you disobeyed her to do what was right, in
events she had not foreseen. And the reason you did not believe this, is
that I have never shown it to you. I did not believe in you. I did not
believe in the virtues of Gryffindor itself. I tried to stamp out your
defiance, instead of training your courage to wisdom. Whatever the
Sorting Hat saw in me that led it to place me in Gryffindor, I have
betrayed it. I have offered my resignation to the Headmaster as Deputy
Headmistress and as the Head of House Gryffindor.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There were cries of shock and dismay, and not only from the Gryffindor
Table, as Harry’s heart froze within his chest. Harry needed to run
forward, say something, he hadn’t meant for this to—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minerva took another breath, and continued. “However, the Headmaster has
declined to accept my resignation,” she said. “So I will continue to
serve, and try to undo what I have wrought. Somehow I must find a way to
teach my students how to do what is right. Not what is safe, not what is
easy, not what we are told to do. If all I can teach you is to turn in
your essays on time, there might as well not be a House Gryffindor. This
road will be more difficult for me, and maybe for all of us. But I know
now that before I was only taking the easy path.”

She stepped down from the lectern, moved down to where the Weasley twins
stood.

“Fred Weasley, George Weasley,” she said. “The two of you have not
always done what is right. The path of wisdom does not lie in flagrant
and needless defiance of authority. And yet today you proved to be the
last of our House to survive my mistakes. Because it was the right thing
to do, you defied a threat of expulsion and risked your lives to face a
mountain troll. For your astounding courage that honours your House to
have you, I award each of you two hundred points for Gryffindor.”

Again the look of shock on their faces, again the pain like a knife
through her heart.

She turned to face the other students.

“I will not award any points to Ravenclaw,” she said. “I suspect that
Mr Potter would not want them. If I am wrong, he may correct me and take
as many House points as he pleases. But for whatever it is worth,
Mr Potter, I am,” her voice faltered, “I am sorry—”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Stop!” Harry screamed, and then, again, “Stop.” The word sticking in
his throat. “You don’t have to, Professor.” Something inside him was
twisting, threatening to split him open, like a giant’s hands wrenching
at him to tear him in half. “And, and you shouldn’t forget Susan Bones,
and Ron Weasley—they also helped, they should get House points too—”

“Miss Bones and the young Weasley?” said Professor McGonagall. “Rubeus
said nothing of that—what did they do?”

“Miss Bones tried to stun Mr Hagrid when he tried to stop me, and
Mr Weasley shot Neville when Neville tried to stop me. They should both
get points, and, and so should Neville,” Harry hadn’t thought to imagine
it before, the way Neville must be feeling now, but the instant he’d
thought, he knew, “because Neville tried to do something, even if it
wasn’t the right thing, doing what’s right is the second lesson, you can
start practising that after you learn to do anything at all—”

“Ten points to Hufflepuff, Miss Bones,” Professor McGonagall said, her
voice breaking in the middle. “Ten points to Gryffindor, Ron Weasley,
your family has done itself exceeding proud, this day. And ten points to
Hufflepuff for Neville Longbottom, for standing up to Mr Potter and
doing what he thought was right—”

“You shouldn’t!” screamed a young voice from the Hufflepuff table,
followed by a single choking sound.

Harry looked there, and then quickly looked back at Professor McGonagall
and said, as steadily as he could, “Neville’s right, actually, you can’t
award literally zero points for the part where you get the action
correct, that sends the wrong message too, but he was halfway there so
it could be five points instead.”

Professor McGonagall looked, for a moment, like she couldn’t think of
what to say; but then her eyes went to Neville’s place at the table, and
she said, “As you wish, Mr Potter. What is it, Miss Bones?”

Harry looked and saw that Susan Bones had stepped forward, wiping at her
own eyes, and the Hufflepuff girl said, “Actually—Professor
McGonagall—General Potter didn’t see it—but Captain Weasley and I
weren’t the only ones who tried to get in Mr Hagrid’s way, after he ran
out. Before some of the older students stopped us. But we managed to
slow Mr Hagrid down a minute, so General Potter could get away.”

“You’ve got to give them points too,” said Ron Weasley from the
Gryffindor table. “Or I won’t take any.”

“Who else?” said Professor McGonagall, her voice a bit unsteady.

Seven other children stood up.

What was that our Slytherin side was saying about predicting nothing
would ever work? said Hufflepuff.

Something in Harry cracked, so that he had to exert all his force to
hold himself together.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When all had been said, and all had been done, Minerva went to where
Harry Potter stood. Though it was not her greatest skill she cast a ward
about them to blur vision, and muffled sounds with another thought.

“You, you didn’t have to—” said Harry Potter. “You shouldn’t have said—”
He sounded like he was choking. “P-Professor, everything I said to you
was hurtful, and hateful, and wrong—”

“I already knew that, Harry,” she said. “Even so, I wished to do
better.” There was a feeling of lightness in her chest, much as one
might experience after stepping off a cliff, when your legs no longer
had to hold your body upright. She wasn’t sure she could do this, she
did not know the way; and yet for the first time it seemed possible that
Hogwarts wouldn’t become a sad ghost of its former self, when she became
its Headmistress.

Harry stared at her, then made an odd noise that sounded like it had
been forced from his throat, and covered his face in his hands.

So she knelt down, and hugged him. It might go wrong, but it might also
go right, and she would not let that uncertainty stop her; it was time
she began to learn a Gryffindor’s courage, so that she could teach it in
turn.

“I had a sister once,” she whispered. Just that, and nothing more.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just to make sure, said some part of Harry, while the rest of him sobbed
into Professor McGonagall’s arms, this doesn’t mean we’ve accepted
Hermione’s death, right?

NO said all the rest of him, every part of his mind in unanimous
agreement, warmth and cold and a hidden place of steel. Never, ever,
forever.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And an ancient wizard to whom that ward meant nothing gazed upon them
both, the witch and the weeping young wizard. Albus Dumbledore was
smiling with a strange sad look in his eyes, like someone who has taken
one more step toward a foreseen destination.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Defence Professor watched them both, the woman and the crying boy.
His eyes were very cold, and very calculating.

He did not think that this would be enough.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It wasn’t until the next morning that it was discovered that Hermione
Granger’s body was missing.

94. Roles, Part V

The first meeting

AT 6:07 a.m. on April 17th, 1992 the Sun was just rising above the
horizon as seen from the castle Hogwarts, filtering in through drawn
curtains in the Ravenclaw first-year boys’ dorm to provide a gentle
light, red-orange for dawn and little-changed by the white fabric
covering the windows, not yet waking boys more accustomed to winter’s
schedule.

In one bed among many, Harry Potter slept the sleep of the just
exhausted.

Quietly the door opened.

Quietly a figure walked across the floor.

That figure came to Harry Potter’s bed.

The figure laid a hand on the shoulder of the sleeping boy, who started
and shrieked.

No others heard.

“Mr Potter,” the small man squeaked, “the Headmaster has requested your
presence immediately.”

Slowly the boy sat up in bed, his hands momentarily fiddling beneath the
covers. He’d expected to feel much worse, waking up this morning. It
felt… wrong, that his brain functioned now, that his thoughts still
moved, that he wasn’t incapacitated with weeping for at least a week.
The boy knew that it wouldn’t have been an adaptive response, for brains
to evolve to do that. His dark side, certainly, would not do that. Even
so, it still felt wrong to be alive and lucid, this morning.

But his resolution to revive Hermione Granger felt—sufficient, like he
was already doing the right thing, bent on the right path, and she would
be brought back, and that was all there was to it; grief would have been
giving up. There was nothing left to decide, no ambiguity, no conflict
to tear at him, and no need to remember what he’d seen—

“I’ll get dressed,” Harry said.

Professor Flitwick looked rather reluctant, but said in his high voice,
“The Headmaster specified you were to be brought to his office directly
and without pause, Mr Potter. I’m sorry.”

Less than a minute later—Professor Flitwick had sent him straight to the
Headmaster’s office through the Hogwarts internal Floo—Harry found
himself, still in his pyjamas, facing Albus Dumbledore. The Deputy
Headmistress was also sitting in another chair, and the Potions Master
lurked nearby amid the weird devices, caught in a gaping yawn just as
Harry had entered through the fireplace.

“Harry,” the Headmaster said without preamble, “before I say what I must
say next, I tell you that Hermione Granger did truly die. The wards
recorded it and informed me. The very stones spoke that a witch had
died. I tested her body where it lay and those were Hermione Granger’s
true mortal remains, not any doll or likeness. There is no way known to
wizardry by which death may be undone. All this being said, Hermione
Granger’s remains are now missing from the storeroom where they were
placed, and where you guarded them. Did you take them, Harry Potter?”

“No,” Harry said, narrowing his eyes. A glance showed him that Severus
was watching him intently.

Dumbledore’s gaze was also keen, though not unfriendly. “Is Hermione
Granger’s body in your possession?”

“No.”

“Do you know where it is?”

“No.”

“Do you know who took it?”

“No,” Harry said, then hesitated. “Besides the obvious probabilistic
speculations which are not based upon any specific knowledge of mine.”

The old wizard nodded. “Do you know why it was taken?”

“No. Besides the obvious speculations etcetera.”

“What would those be?” Sharp the ancient eyes.

“If the enemy can notice you running off to consult the Weasley twins
during class after Hermione was arrested, and find out about that magic
map you said was stolen, then the enemy can wonder why I was guarding
Hermione Granger’s body. My turn. Did you arrange for Hermione’s death
in hopes of getting the money back from Lucius?”

“What?” said Professor McGonagall.

“No,” said the old wizard.

“Did you know or suspect that Hermione Granger would die?”

“I did not know. As for suspicions, I placed her in the most strongly
defended position I could, against Voldemort. I did not will her death,
nor allow it, nor plan to benefit from it, Harry Potter. Now show me
your pouch.”

“It’s in my trunk—” Harry began.

“Severus,” said the old wizard, and the Potions Master moved forward.
“Check his trunk as well, every compartment.”

“My trunk has wards.”

Severus Snape grinned mirthlessly and strode into the green flame.

Dumbledore took out his long dark-grey wand and began to wave it close
around Harry’s hair, looking like a Muggle using a metal-detector.
Before he had reached as far as Harry’s neck, Dumbledore stopped.

“The gem upon your ring,” Dumbledore said. “It is no longer a clear
diamond. It is brown, the colour of Hermione Granger’s eyes, and the
colour of her hair.”

A sudden tension filled the room.

“That’s my father’s rock,” Harry said. “Transfigured the same as before.
I just did it to remember Hermione—”

“I must be sure. Take off that ring, Harry, and place it upon my desk.”

Slowly, Harry did so, removing the gem and setting the ring off to the
other side of the desk.

Dumbledore pointed his wand at the gem and—

A large, undistinguished grey rock jumped into the air from the force of
its sudden expansion, hit some invisible barrier in the air above, and
then fell with a loud crack upon the Headmaster’s desk,

“There’s another half-hour of work for me, Transfiguring it again,”
Harry said evenly.

Dumbledore resumed his examination. Harry had to remove his left shoe,
and take off the toe-ring that was his emergency portkey if someone
kidnapped him and took him outside the wards of Hogwarts (and didn’t put
up anti-Apparition, anti-portkey, anti-phœnix, and anti-time-looping
wards, which Severus had warned Harry that any inner-circle Death Eater
would certainly do). It was verified that the magic radiating from the
toe-ring was indeed the magic of a portkey, and not the magic of a
Transfiguration. The rest of Harry was deemed clear.

Not long after, the Potions Master returned, bearing Harry’s pouch, and
several other magical things which had been in Harry’s trunk, which the
Headmaster also examined, one by one, even to all the items remaining
within the healer’s kit.

“Can I go now?” Harry said when it was all done, putting as much cold as
he could into his voice. He took up his pouch, and began the process of
feeding the grey rock into it. The empty ring went back on his finger.

The old wizard breathed out, slipping his wand back into his sleeve. “I
am sorry,” he said. “I had to know. Harry… the Dark Lord has taken
Hermione Granger’s remains, it seems. I cannot think of anything he
would gain thereby, except to send her corpse against you as an
Inferius. Severus shall give you certain potions to keep about your
person. Be warned now, and be prepared for when you must do what must be
done.”

“Will the Inferius have Hermione’s mind?”

“No—”

“Then it’s not her. Can I go? At least to change out of my pyjamas.”

“There is other news, but I shall be brief. The wards of Hogwarts record
that no foreign creature has entered, and that it was the Defence
Professor who killed Hermione Granger.”

“Um,” Harry said.

Thought 1: But I saw the troll kill Hermione.

Thought 2: Professor Quirrell Memory-Charmed me and set up the scene
that Dumbledore saw when he arrived.

Thought 3: Professor Quirrell can’t do that, his magic can’t touch mine.
I saw that in Azkaban—

Thought 4: Can I trust those memories?

Thought 5: There was clearly some sort of debacle at Azkaban, we
wouldn’t have needed a rocket if Professor Quirrell hadn’t fallen
unconscious, and why’d he be unconscious if not—

Thought 6: Did I ever actually go to Azkaban at all?

Thought 7: I clearly practised controlling Dementors at some point
before I scared that Dementor in the Wizengamot. And that was in the
newspapers.

Thought 8: Am I accurately remembering the newspapers?

“Um,” Harry said again. “That spell seriously ought to be Unforgiveable.
You think Professor Quirrell could have Memory-Charmed—”

“No. I went back through time and placed certain instruments to record
Hermione’s last battle, which I could not quite bear to watch in my own
person.” The old wizard looked very grim indeed. “Your guess was right,
Harry Potter. Voldemort sabotaged everything we gave Hermione to protect
her. Her broomstick lay dead in her hands. Her invisibility cloak did
not conceal her. The troll walked in the sunlight unharmed; it was no
stray creature, but a weapon pure and aimed. And it was indeed the troll
who killed her, with strength alone, so that my wards and webs to detect
hostile magics went for naught. The Defence Professor never crossed her
path.”

Harry swallowed, shut his eyes, and thought. “So this was an attempted
frame on Professor Quirrell. Somehow. It does seem to be the enemy’s
modus operandi. Troll eats Hermione Granger, check the wards, oh look
actually the Defence Professor did it, same as last year… no. No, that
can’t be right.”

“Why not, Mr Potter?” said the Potions Master. “It seems obvious enough
to me—”

“That’s the problem.”

The enemy is smart.

Slowly the fog of sleep was drifting out of Harry’s mind, and after a
full night’s sleep his brain could see the things which hadn’t been
obvious the day before.

Under standard literary convention… the enemy wasn’t supposed to look
over what you’d done, sabotage the magic items you’d handed out, and
then send out a troll rendered undetectable by some means the heroes
couldn’t figure out even after the fact, so that you might as well have
not defended yourself at all. In a book, the point of view usually
stayed on the main characters. Having the enemy just bypass all the
protagonists’ work, as a result of planning and actions taken out of
literary sight, would be a diabolus ex machina, and dramatically
unsatisfying.

But in real life the enemy would think that they were the main
character, and they would also be clever, and think things through in
advance, even if you didn’t see them do it. That was why everything
about this felt so disjointed, with parts unexplained and seemingly
inexplicable. How had Lucius felt, when Harry had threatened Dumbledore
with breaking Azkaban? How had the Aurors above Azkaban felt, seeing the
broomstick rise up on a torch of fire?

The enemy is smart.

“The enemy knew perfectly well that you’d turn back time to check what
really happened to Hermione, especially since the troll getting into
Hogwarts at all tells us that somebody can fool the wards.” Harry shut
his eyes, thinking harder, trying to put himself into the enemy’s shoes.
Why would he, or his dark side, have done something like—“We’re meant to
conclude that the enemy has control of what the wards tell us. But
that’s actually something the enemy can only do with difficulty, or
under special conditions; they’re trying to create a false appearance of
omnipotence.” Like I would. “Later, hypothetically, the wards show
Professor Sinistra killing someone. We think the wards are just being
fooled again, but really, Professor Sinistra was Legilimized and she did
do it.”

“Unless that is precisely what the Dark Lord expects us to think,” said
Severus Snape, his brow furrowed in concentration. “In which case he
does have control of the wards, and Professor Sinistra will be
innocent.”

“Does the Dark Lord really use plots with that many levels of meta—”

“Yes,” said Dumbledore and Severus.

Harry nodded distantly. “Then this could be a setup to either make us
think the wards are telling the truth when they’re lying, or a setup to
make us think the wards are lying when they’re telling the truth,
depending on what level the enemy expects us to reason at. But if the
enemy is planning to make us trust the wards—we would have trusted the
wards anyway, if we’d been given no reason to distrust them. So there’s
no need to go to all the work of framing Professor Quirrell in a way
that we would realize we were intended to discover, just to trick us
into going meta—”

“Not so,” said Dumbledore. “If Voldemort has not fully mastered the
wards, then the wards had to believe that some Professor’s hand was at
work. Else they would have cried out at Miss Granger’s injury, and not
only upon her death.”

Harry reached up a hand and rubbed at his brow, just beneath his hair.

Okay, serious question. If the enemy is that smart, why the heck am I
still alive? Is it seriously that hard to poison someone, are there
Charms and Potions and bezoars which can cure me of literally anything
that could be slipped into my breakfast? Would the wards record it,
trace the magic of the murderer?

Could my scar contain the fragment of soul that’s keeping the Dark Lord
anchored to the world, so he doesn’t want to kill me? Instead he’s
trying to drive off all my friends to weaken my spirit so he can take
over my body? It’d explain the Parselmouth thing. The Sorting Hat might
not be able to detect a lich-phylactery-thingy. Obvious problem 1, the
Dark Lord is supposed to have made his lich-phylactery-thingy in 1943 by
killing whatshername and framing Mr Hagrid. Obvious problem 2, there’s
no such thing as souls.

Though Dumbledore also thought that my blood was a key ingredient in a
ritual to restore the Dark Lord’s full strength, which would require
keeping me alive until then… now there’s a cheery thought.

“Well…” Harry said. “I’m sure of one thing.”

“And that is?”

“Neville needs to be taken out of Hogwarts now. He’s the obvious next
target and no first-year student can survive this level of offense.
We’re lucky Neville wasn’t assassinated yesterday evening, the enemy
doesn’t have to wait until we’re finished mourning to make their next
move.” Why didn’t the enemy strike while we were distracted?

Dumbledore exchanged glances with Severus, and then with the suddenly
tight expression of Professor McGonagall. “Harry,” said the old wizard,
“if you send all your friends away yourself, that is just the same as if
Voldemort—”

“I will be fine I can do without Neville for a couple of extra months
it’s not like you were planning to make my friends stay here over the
summer and that is just plain not sufficient justification to let him
get killed! Professor McGonagall—”

“I quite agree,” said the Scottish witch. She frowned. “I extremely
agree. I agree to the point where… I’m having some trouble figuring out
how to express this, Albus…”

“To the point where you’re going to haul him out of there yourself,
regardless of what anyone else says, because it’s no excuse to say you
were only following orders if Neville gets killed?” Harry said.

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes briefly. “Yes, but surely there
ought to be some way to be responsible without threats of unilateral
action.”

The Headmaster sighed. “No need. Go, Minerva.”

“Wait,” the Potions Master said, just as Professor McGonagall, moving
rather swiftly, was taking a pinch of green dust from the Floo-vase. “We
should not call attention to the boy, as the Headmaster called attention
to the Weasley twins. It would be wiser, I think, if Mr Longbottom’s
grandmother took him from Hogwarts. Let him stay in his Common Room for
now; the Dark Lord does not seem able to act so openly.”

There was another long exchange of glances among the four, and finally
Harry nodded, followed by Professor McGonagall.

“In that case,” said Harry, “I’m sure of one other thing.”

“And that is?” said Dumbledore.

“I very much need to visit the toilet, and I would also like to change
out of these pyjamas.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“By the way,” Harry said as he and the Headmaster emerged from Floo into
the empty office of the Ravenclaw Head of House. “One last quick
question I wanted to ask just you. That sword the Weasley twins pulled
out of the Sorting Hat. That was the Sword of Gryffindor, wasn’t it?”

The old wizard turned, face neutral. “What makes you think that, Harry?”

“The Sorting Hat yelled Gryffindor! just before handing it out, the
sword had a ruby pommel and gold letters on the blade, and the Latin
script said Nothing better. Just a hunch.”

“Nihil supernum,” said the old wizard. “That is not quite what it
means.”

Harry nodded. “Mmhm. What’d you do with it?”

“I retrieved it from where it fell, and placed it in a secure place,”
the old wizard said. He gave Harry a stern look. “I hope you are not
greedy for it yourself, young Ravenclaw.”

“Not at all, just want to make sure you’re not keeping it permanently
from its rightful wielders. So the Weasley twins are the Heir of
Gryffindor, then?”

“The Heir of Gryffindor?” Dumbledore said, looking surprised. Then the
old wizard smiled, blue eyes twinkling brightly. “Ah, Harry, Salazar
Slytherin may have built a Chamber of Secrets into Hogwarts, but Godric
Gryffindor was not much given to such extravagances. We have seen only
that Godric left his Sword to the defence of Hogwarts, if a worthy
student ever faced a foe they could not defeat alone.”

“That’s not the same as saying no. Don’t think I didn’t notice that you
didn’t actually say no.”

“I did not live in those years, Harry, and I do not know all that Godric
Gryffindor may or may not have done—”

“Do you in fact assign greater than fifty percent subjective probability
that there is something like a Heir of Gryffindor and one or both
Weasley twins are it. Yes or no, evasion means yes. You’re not going to
succeed in distracting me, no matter how much I have to go to the
bathroom.”

The old wizard sighed. “Yes, Fred and George Weasley are the Heir of
Gryffindor. I beg you not to speak of it to them, not yet.”

Harry nodded, and turned to go. “I’m surprised,” Harry said. “I read a
little about Godric Gryffindor’s historical life. The Weasley twins are…
well, they’re awesome in various ways, but they don’t seem much like the
Godric in the history books.”

“Only a man exceedingly proud and vain,” Dumbledore said quietly, as he
turned back to the Floo roaring up again with green flames, “would
believe that his heir should be like himself, rather than like who he
wished that he could be.”

The Headmaster stepped into green fire, and was gone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The second meeting (in a small cubbyhole off the Hufflepuff Common Room):

Neville Longbottom’s face was drawn up in anguish, as he spoke with
no-one to hear, to the empty air.

“Seriously,” the empty air said back to him. “I’m wearing an
invisibility cloak with extra anti-detection charms just to walk through
the hallways because I don’t want to be killed. My parents would have me
out of Hogwarts in an instant if the Headmaster allowed it. Neville,
your getting the heck out of Hogwarts is common sense, it has nothing to
do with—”

“I betrayed you, General,” Neville said, his voice around as hollow as
any normal eleven-year-old boy could reasonably manage. “I didn’t even
do it the Chaotic way. I conformed to authority and tried to make you
conform to authority too. What’s that you always say, about how in the
Chaos Legion, a soldier who can only obey orders is useless?”

“Neville,” the empty air said firmly. The pressure of two hands, beneath
thin cloth, came firmly to bear on Neville’s shoulders; and the voice
moved closer to him. “You weren’t blindly obeying authority, you were
trying to protect me. It’s true that in this chaotic world, soldiers who
can only follow rules and regulations are worthless. However, soldiers
who follow rules for the sake of protecting their friends are—”

“Slightly better than worthless?” Neville said bitterly.

“Significantly better than worthless. Neville, you made an error of
judgement. It cost me around six seconds. Now it could be that
Hermione’s injuries were just barely fatal, but even then, I don’t think
six seconds was actually enough time for the troll to take an extra bite
of Hermione. In the counterfactual world where you didn’t step in front
of me, Hermione still died. Now, I could stand here listing out the
first dozen ways that Hermione would be alive if I hadn’t been stupid—”

“You? You ran right out after her. I’m the one who tried to stop you.
It’s my fault if it’s anyone’s,” Neville said bitterly.

The empty air went silent at this for a while.

“Wow,” the empty air finally said. “Wow. That puts a pretty different
perspective on things, I have to say. I’m going to remember this the
next time I feel an impulse to blame myself for something. Neville, the
term in the literature for this is ‘egocentric bias’, it means that you
experience everything about your own life but you don’t get to
experience everything else that happens in the world. There was way, way
more going on than you running in front of me. You’re going to spend
weeks remembering that thing you did there for six seconds, I can tell,
but nobody else is going to bother thinking about it. Other people spend
a lot less time thinking about your past mistakes than you do, just
because you’re not the centre of their worlds. I guarantee to you that
nobody except you has even considered blaming Neville Longbottom for
what happened to Hermione. Not for a fraction of a second. You are
being, if you will pardon the phrase, a silly-billy. Now shut up and say
goodbye.”

“I don’t want to say goodbye,” Neville said. His voice was trembling,
but he managed not to cry. “I want to stay here and fight with you
against—against whatever’s happening.”

The empty air moved closer to him, and embraced him in a hug, and Harry
Potter’s voice whispered, “Tough luck.”

95. Roles, Part VI

The third meeting (10:31 a.m., April 17th 1992)

SPRING had begun, the late-morning air still crisp with the leavings of
winter. Daffodils had bloomed amid the sprouting grass of the forest,
the gentle yellow petals with their golden hearts dangling limply from
their dead, greyed stems, wounded or killed by one of the sudden frosts
that you often saw in April. In the Forbidden Forest there would be
stranger life-forms, centaurs and unicorns at the least, and Harry had
heard allegations of werewolves. Though from what Harry had read of
real-life werewolves, that did not make the slightest bit of sense.

Harry didn’t venture anywhere near the border of the Forbidden Forest,
since there was no reason to take the risk. He walked invisibly among
the more ordinary life-forms of the permitted woods, wand in hand, a
broomstick strapped to his back for easier access, just in case. He was
not actually afraid; Harry thought it odd that he didn’t feel afraid.
The state of constant vigilance, readiness for fight or flight, failed
to feel burdensome or even abnormal.

On the edges of the permitted woods Harry walked, his feet never
straying near the beaten path where he might be more easily found, never
leaving sight of Hogwarts’s windows. Harry had set the alarm upon his
mechanical watch to tell him when it was lunchtime, since he couldn’t
actually look at his wrist, being invisible and all that. It raised the
question of how his eyeglasses worked while he was wearing the Cloak.
For that matter the Law of the Excluded Middle seemed to imply that
either the rhodopsin complexes in his retina were absorbing photons and
transducing them to neural spikes, or alternatively, those photons were
going straight through his body and out the other side, but not both. It
really did seem increasingly likely that invisibility cloaks let you see
outward while being invisible yourself because, on some fundamental
level, that was how the caster had—not wanted—but implicitly
believed—that invisibility should work.

Whereupon you had to wonder whether anyone had tried Confunding or
Legilimizing someone into implicitly and matter-of-factly believing that
Fixus Everythingus ought to be an easy first-year Charm, and then trying
to invent it.

Or maybe find a worthy Muggle-born in a country that didn’t identify
Muggle-born children, and tell them some extensive lies, fake up a
surrounding story and corresponding evidence, so that, from the very
beginning, they’d have a different idea of what magic could do. Though
apparently they’d still have to learn a number of previous Charms before
they became capable of inventing their own…

It might not work. Surely there’d been some organically insane wizards
who’d truly believed in their own possibility of godhood, and yet had
failed to become god. But even the insane had probably believed the
ascension spell ought to be some grandiose dramatic ritual and not
something you did with a carefully composed twitch of your wand and the
incantation Becomus Goddus.

Harry was already pretty sure it wouldn’t be that easy. But then the
question was, why not? What pattern had his brain learned? Could the
reason be predicted in advance?

A slight fringe of apprehension crept through Harry then, a tinge of
worry, as he contemplated this question. The nameless concern sharpened,
grew greater—

Professor Quirrell?

“Mr Potter,” a soft voice called from behind him.

Harry spun, his hand going to the Time-Turner beneath his cloak; again
the principle of being ready to flee upon an instant’s notice felt only
ordinary.

Slowly, palms empty and turned outward, Professor Quirrell was walking
towards him within the forests’ outskirts, coming from the general
direction of the Hogwarts castle.

“Mr Potter,” Professor Quirrell said again. “I know that you’re here.
You know that I know that you’re here. I must speak to you.”

Still Harry said nothing. Professor Quirrell hadn’t actually said what
this was about, and Harry’s sunlit morning walk about the forest edge
had produced a mood of silence within him.

Professor Quirrell took a small step to the left, a step forward,
another to the right. He tilted his head with a look of calculation, and
then he walked almost directly towards where Harry stood, halted a few
paces off with the sense of doom inflamed to the height of bearability.

“Are you still resolved upon your course?” Professor Quirrell said. “The
same course you spoke of yesterday?”

Again Harry did not reply.

Professor Quirrell sighed. “There is much I have done for you,” the man
said. “Whatever else you may wonder of me, you cannot deny that. I am
calling in some of the debt. Talk to me, Mr Potter.”

I don’t feel like doing this right now, Harry thought; then: Oh, right.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two hours later, after Harry had spun the Time-Turner once, noted down
the exact time and memorized his exact location, spent another hour
walking, went inside and told Professor McGonagall that he was currently
talking to the Defence Professor in the woods outside Hogwarts (just in
case anything happened to him), walked for a further hour, then returned
to his original location exactly one hour after he’d left and spun the
Time-Turner again—

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“What was that?” Professor Quirrell said, blinking. “Did you just—”

“Nothing important,” Harry said without pulling back the hood of his
invisibility cloak, or taking his hand from his Time-Turner. “Yes, I’m
still resolved. To be honest, I’m thinking I shouldn’t have said
anything.”

Professor Quirrell inclined his head. “A sentiment which shall serve you
well in life. Is there anything which is liable to change your mind?”

“Professor, if I already knew about the existence of an argument which
would change my decision—”

“True, for the likes of us. But you would be surprised how often someone
knows what they are waiting to hear, yet must wait to hear it said.”
Professor Quirrell shook his head. “To put this in your terms… there is
a true fact, known to me but not to you, of which I would like to
convince you, Mr Potter.”

Harry’s eyebrows rose, though he realized in the next moment that
Professor Quirrell couldn’t see it. “That’s in my terms, all right. Go
ahead.”

“The intention you have formed is far more dangerous than you realize.”

Replying to this surprising statement did not take much thought on
Harry’s part. “Define dangerous, and tell me what you think you know and
how you think you know it.”

“Sometimes,” said Professor Quirrell, “telling someone about a danger
can cause them to walk directly into it. I have no intention of having
that happen this time. Do you expect me to tell you exactly what you
must not do? Exactly why I am afraid?” The man shook his head. “If you
were wizardborn, Mr Potter, you would know to take it seriously, when a
powerful magus tells you only to beware.”

It would have been a lie to say that Harry was not annoyed, but he also
wasn’t an idiot; so Harry said merely, “Is there anything you can tell
me?”

Carefully, Professor Quirrell seated himself upon the grass, and took
out his wand, his hand assuming a position that Harry recognized.
Harry’s breath caught.

“This is the last time that I shall be able to do this for you,”
Professor Quirrell said quietly. Then the man began to speak words that
were strange, of no language Harry could recognize, intonation that
seemed not quite human, words which seemed to slip from Harry’s memory
even as he tried to grasp them, exiting from his mind as quickly as they
entered.

The spell took effect more slowly, this time. The trees seemed to
darken, branches and leaves staining, as though seen through perfect
sunglasses that faded and attenuated light without distorting it. The
blue bowl of the sky receded, the horizon which Harry’s brain falsely
assigned a finite distance pulling back as it turned grey, and darker
grey. The clouds became translucent, transparent, dissolving to let the
darkness shine through.

The forest shaded, faded, abated into blackness.

The great sky river became visible once again, as Harry’s eyes adjusted,
became able to see the largest object which human eyes could ever behold
as more than a point, the surrounding Milky Way.

And the stars, piercingly bright and yet remote, out of a great depth.

Professor Quirrell breathed deeply. Then he raised his wand again (just
barely visible, in the starlight without sun or moon) and tapped himself
on the head with a sound like an egg cracking.

The Defence Professor also faded away, became likewise invisible.

A tiny disk of grass, illuminated by not much light at all, drifted
unoccupied within empty space.

Neither of them spoke for a time. Harry was content to look at the
stars, undistracted even by his own body. Whatever Professor Quirrell
had called him here to say, it would be said in due time.

In due time, a voice spoke.

“There is no war here,” said a soft voice emanating from within the
emptiness. “No conflict and battle, no politics and betrayal, no death
and no life. That is all for the folly of men. The stars are above such
foolishness, untouched by it. Here there is peace, and silence eternal.
So I once thought.”

Harry turned to look at where the voice originated, and saw only stars.

“So you once thought?” Harry said, when no other words seemed to be
forthcoming.

“There is nothing above the folly of men,” whispered the voice from the
emptiness. “There is nothing beyond the destructive powers of
sufficiently intelligent idiocy, not even the stars themselves. I went
to a great deal of trouble to make a certain golden plaque last forever.
I would not like to see it destroyed by human folly.”

Again Harry’s eyes reflexively darted toward where the voice should have
been, again saw only emptiness. “I think I can reassure you on that
score, Professor. Nuclear weapons don’t have a fireball extending out
for… how far away is Pioneer 11? Somewhere around a billion kilometres,
maybe? Muggles talk about nuclear weapons destroying the world, but what
they actually mean is lightly warming up some of Earth’s surface. The
Sun is a giant fusion reaction and it doesn’t vaporize distant space
probes. The worst-case scenario for nuclear war wouldn’t even come close
to destroying the Solar System, not that this is much of a consolation.”

“True while we speak of Muggles,” said the soft voice amid starlight.
“But what do Muggles know of true power? It is not they who frighten me
now. It is you.”

“Professor,” Harry said carefully, “while I have to admit I’ve rolled a
few critical failures in my life, there’s a bit of distance between that
and missing a saving throw so hard that the Pioneer 11 probe gets caught
in the blast radius. There’s no realistic way to do that without blowing
up the Sun. And before you ask, our Sun is a main-sequence G-type star,
it can’t explode. Any energy input would just increase the volume of the
hydrogen plasma, the Sun doesn’t have a degenerate core that could be
detonated. The Sun doesn’t have enough mass to go supernova, even at the
end of its lifespan.”

“Such amazing things the Muggles have learned,” the other voice
murmured. “How stars live, how they are preserved from death, how they
die. And they never wonder if such knowledge might be dangerous.”

“In all frankness, Professor, that particular thought has never occurred
to me either.”

“You are Muggle-born. I speak not of blood, I speak of how you spent
your childhood years. There is a freedom of thought in that, true. But
there is also wisdom in the caution of wizardkind. It has been three
hundred and twenty-three years since the magical territories of Sicily
were ruined by one man’s folly. Such incidents were more common in the
years when Hogwarts was raised. Commoner still, in the time since
Merlin. Of the time before Merlin, little remains to study.”

“There’s around thirty orders of magnitude of difference between that
and blowing up the Sun,” Harry observed, then caught himself. “But
that’s a pointless quibble, sorry, blowing up a country would also be
bad, I agree. In any case, Professor, I don’t plan on doing anything
like that.”

“Your choice is not required, Mr Potter. If you had read more wizarding
novels and fewer Muggle stories, you would know. In serious literature
the wizard whose foolishness threatens to unleash the Shambling Bone-Men
will not be deliberately bent on such a goal, that is for children’s
books. This truly dangerous wizard shall perhaps be bent on some project
of which he anticipates great renown, and the certain prospect of losing
that renown and living out his life in obscurity will seem to him more
vivid than the unknown prospect of destroying his country. Or he shall
have promised success to one he cannot bear to disappoint. Perhaps he
has children in debt. There is much literary wisdom in those stories. It
is born of harsh experience and cities of ash. The most likely prospect
for disaster is a powerful wizard who, for whatever reason, cannot bring
himself to halt as warning signs appear. Though he may speak much and
loudly of caution, he will not be able to bring himself actually to
halt. I wonder, Mr Potter, have you thought of trying anything which
Hermione Granger herself would have told you not to do?”

“All right, point taken,” said Harry. “Professor, I am well aware that
if I save Hermione at the price of two other people’s lives, I’ve lost
on total points from a utilitarian standpoint. I am extremely aware that
Hermione would not want me to risk destroying a whole country just to
save her. That’s just common sense.”

“Child who destroys Dementors,” said that soft voice, “if it were only
one country I feared you might ruin, I would be less concerned. I did
not at first credit that your knowledge of Muggle science and Muggle
practices would be a source of great power. I now credit it more. I am,
in complete sincerity, concerned for the safety of that golden plaque.”

“Well, if science fiction has taught me anything,” said Harry, “it’s
taught me that destroying the Solar System is not morally acceptable,
especially if you do it before humanity has colonized any other star
systems.”

“Then will you give up this—”

“No,” Harry said without even thinking before he opened his mouth. After
a moment, he added, “But I do understand what you’re trying to tell me.”

Silence. The stars had not shifted, not even as they would have in an
Earthly night sky, over time.

A very slight rustle, as of someone shifting their body. Harry realized
that he had been standing for a while in the same position, and dropped
down to the almost unseeable circle of grass that still stayed beneath
him, careful not to touch the edges of the spell.

“Tell me this,” said the soft voice. “Why does that girl matter to you
so much?”

“Because she is my friend.”

“In the English language as it is customarily used, Mr Potter, the word
‘friend’ is not associated with a desperate effort to raise the dead.
Are you under the impression that she is your true love, or some such?”

“Oh, not you too,” Harry said wearily. “Not you of all people,
Professor. Fine, we’re best friends, but that’s all, okay? That’s
enough. Friends don’t let friends stay dead.”

“Ordinary folk do not do as much, for those they call friends.” The
voice sounded more distant now, abstracted. “Not even for those they say
they love. Their companions die, and they do not go in search of power
to resurrect them.”

Harry couldn’t help himself. He looked over again, despite knowing it
would be futile, and saw only more stars. “Let me guess, from this you
deduce that… people don’t actually care as much about their friends as
they pretend.”

A brief laugh. “They would scarcely pretend to care less.”

“They care, Professor, and not just for their true loves. Soldiers throw
themselves on grenades to save their friends, mothers run into burning
houses to save their children. But if you’re a Muggle you don’t think
there’s any such thing as magic to bring someone back to life. And
normal wizards don’t… think outside the box like that. I mean, most
wizards aren’t searching for power to make themselves immortal. Does
that prove they don’t care about their own lives?”

“As you say, Mr Potter. Certainly I myself would consider their lives
pointless and without a shred of value. Perhaps, somewhere in their
hidden hearts, they also believe that my opinion of them is the correct
one.”

Harry shook his head, and then, in annoyance, cast back the hood of his
Cloak, and shook his head again. “That seems like a rather contrived
view of the world, Professor,” said the dim-lit head of a boy, floating
unsupported on a circle of dark grass amid stars. “Trying to invent a
resurrection spell just isn’t something normal people would think of, so
you can’t deduce anything from their not taking the option.”

A moment later, the dim-lit outline of a man sitting on the circle of
grass was visible as well.

“If they truly cared about their supposed loved ones,” the Defence
Professor said softly, “they would think of it, would they not?”

“Brains don’t work that way. They don’t suddenly supercharge when the
stakes go up—or when they do, it’s within hard limits. I couldn’t
calculate the thousandth digit of pi if someone’s life depended on it.”

The dim-lit head inclined. “But there is another possible explanation,
Mr Potter. It is that people play the role of friendship. They do just
as much as that role requires of them, and no more. The thought occurs
to me that perhaps the difference between you and them is not that you
care more than they do. Why would you have been born with such unusually
strong emotions of friendship, that you alone among wizardkind are
driven to resurrect Hermione Granger after her death? No, the most
likely difference is not that you care more. It is that, being a more
logical creature than they, you alone have thought that playing the role
of Friend would require this of you.”

Harry stared out at the stars. He would have been lying if he’d claimed
not to be shaken. “That… can’t be true, Professor. I could name a dozen
examples in Muggle novels of people driven to resurrect their dead
friends. The authors of those stories clearly understood exactly how I
feel about Hermione. Though you wouldn’t have read them, I guess… maybe
Orpheus and Eurydice? I didn’t actually read that one but I know what’s
in it.”

“Such tales are also told among wizardkind. There is the story of the
Elric brothers. The tale of Dora Kent, who was protected by her son
Saul. There is Ronald Mallett and his doomed challenge to Time. In
Sicily before its fall, the drama of Precia Testarossa. In Nippon they
tell of Akemi Homura and her lost love. What these stories have in
common, Mr Potter, is that they are all fiction. Real-life wizards do
not attempt the same, even though the notion is clearly not beyond their
imagination.”

“Because they don’t think they can!” Harry’s voice rose.

“Shall we go and tell the good Professor McGonagall about your intention
to find a way to resurrect Miss Granger, and see what she thinks of it?
Perhaps it has simply never occurred to her to consider that option… Ah,
but you hesitate. You already know her answer, Mr Potter. Do you know
why you know it?” You could hear the cold smile in the voice. “A lovely
technique, that. Thank you for teaching it to me.”

Harry was aware of the tension that had developed in his face, his words
came out as though bitten off. “Professor McGonagall has not grown up
with the Muggle concept of the increasing power of science, and nobody’s
ever told her that when a friend’s life is at stake is a time when you
need to think very rationally—”

The Defence Professor’s voice was also rising. “The Transfiguration
Professor is reading from a script, Mr Potter! That script calls for her
to mourn and grieve, that all may know how much she cared. Ordinary
people react poorly if you suggest that they go off-script. As you
already knew!”

“That’s funny, I could have sworn I saw Professor McGonagall going
off-script at dinner yesterday. If I saw her go off-script another ten
times I might actually try to talk to her about resurrecting Hermione,
but right now she’s new to that and needs practice. In the end,
Professor, what you’re trying to explain away by calling love and
friendship and everything else a lie is just human beings not knowing
any better.”

The Defence Professor’s voice rose in pitch. “If it were you who had
been killed by that troll, it would not even occur to Hermione Granger
to do as you are doing for her! It would not occur to Draco Malfoy, nor
to Neville Longbottom, nor to McGonagall or any of your precious
friends! There is not one person in this world who would return to you
the care that you are showing her! So why? Why do it, Mr Potter?” There
was a strange, wild desperation in that voice. “Why be the only one in
the world who goes to such lengths to keep up the pretence, when none of
them will ever do the same for you?”

“I believe you are factually mistaken, Professor,” Harry returned
evenly. “About a number of things, in fact. At the very least, your
model of my emotions is flawed. Because you don’t understand me the
tiniest bit, if you think that it would stop me if everything you said
was true. Everything in the world has to start somewhere, every event
that happens has to happen for a first time. Life on Earth had to start
with some little self-replicating molecule in a pool of mud. And if I
were the first person in the world, no—”

Harry’s hand swept out, to indicate the terribly distant points of
light.

“—if I were the first person in the universe who ever really cared about
someone else, which I’m not by the way, then I’d be honoured to be that
person, and I’d try to do it justice.”

There was a long silence.

“You truly do care about that girl,” the man’s dim outline said softly.
“You care about her in the way that none of them are capable of caring
for their own lives, let alone each other.” The Defence Professor’s
voice had become strange, filled with some indecipherable emotion. “I do
not understand it, but I know the lengths you will go to because of it.
You will challenge death itself, for her. Nothing will sway you from
that.”

“I care enough to make an actual effort,” Harry said quietly. “Yes, that
is correct.”

The starlight slowly began to fracture, the world shining through the
cracks; slashes through the night showing tree trunks and leaves glowing
in the sunlight. Harry raised a hand, blinking hard, as the returning
brightness smashed into his dark-adjusted eyes; and his eyes
automatically went to the Defence Professor, just in case an attack
occurred while he was blinded.

When all the stars had gone and only daylight remained, Professor
Quirrell was still sitting on the grass. “Well, Mr Potter,” he said in
his normal voice, “if that is so, then I shall give you what help I can,
while I can.”

“You’ll what?” Harry said involuntarily.

“My offer as I made it yesterday still stands. Ask and I will answer.
Show me the same science books you deemed suitable for Mr Malfoy, and I
shall look them over and tell you what comes to mind. Don’t look so
surprised, Mr Potter, I would hardly leave you to your own devices.”

Harry stared, tear ducts still watering from the sudden light.

Professor Quirrell looked back at him. Something strange glinted in the
pale eyes. “I have done what I can, and now I fear I must take my leave
of you. Good—” and the Defence Professor hesitated. “Good day,
Mr Potter.”

“Good—” Harry began.

The man sitting on the grass fell over, his head impacting the ground
with a light thud. At the same time the sense of doom diminished so
sharply that Harry leapt to his feet, his heart suddenly in his throat.

But the figure on the ground slowly pushed back up to a crawling
position. Turned to look at Harry, eyes empty, mouth slack. Tried to
stand, fell back to the ground.

Harry took a step forward, sheer instinct telling him to offer a hand,
although that was incorrect; the apprehension that rose up in him,
however faint, spoke of continued danger.

But the fallen figure flinched away from Harry, and then slowly began
crawl to away from him, in the general direction of the distant castle.

The boy standing amid the forest gazed after.

96. Roles, Part VII

E. Y.: For those who have not read canon: the wooden sign has somewhat
changed, but the inscription here is the same as in J. K. Rowling’s
original.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fourth meeting (4:38 p.m., April 17th, 1992)

THE man wearing the worn, warm coat, with three faint scars etched
forever into his cheek, observed Harry Potter as closely as he could
while the boy looked around politely at the rows of cottages. For
someone whose best friend had died yesterday, Harry Potter seemed
strangely composed, though not in any way reminiscent of unfeeling, or
normality. I don’t wish to talk about that, the boy had said, with you
or anyone. Saying ‘wish’ and not ‘want’, as though to emphasize that he
was able to use grown-up words and make grown-up decisions. There had
been only one thing Remus Lupin had thought of that might help, after
he’d received the owls from Professor McGonagall and that strange man
Quirinus Quirrell.

“There’s a lot of empty houses,” the boy said, glancing around again.

Godric’s Hollow had changed, in the decade since Remus Lupin had been a
frequent visitor. Many of the old, peaked cottages looked deserted, with
green leafy vines growing across their windows and their doors. Britain
had contracted noticeably, in the aftermath of the Wizarding War, having
lost not only the dead but the fled. Godric’s Hollow had been hard-hit.
And afterwards still more families had moved elsewhere, to Hogsmeade or
magical London, the deserted houses too uncomfortable a reminder.

Others had remained. Godric’s Hollow was older than Hogwarts, older than
Godric Gryffindor whose name it had taken, and there were families which
would reside here until the end of the world and its magic.

The Potters had been one such family, and would be again, if the last
Potter so chose.

Remus Lupin tried to explain all that, simplifying it as best he could
for the young boy. The Ravenclaw nodded thoughtfully and said nothing,
as though he had understood it all without need of questions. Perhaps
that was so; the child of James Potter and Lily Evans, the Head Boy and
Head Girl of Hogwarts, would hardly be stupid. The child had certainly
seemed highly intelligent, for the little time that they had spoken in
January, though at that time Remus had done most of the talking.

(There was also that business with the Wizengamot which Remus had heard
rumours about, but Remus didn’t believe a single word of that, any more
than he’d believed it about James betrothing his son to Molly’s
youngest.)

“There’s the monument,” Remus said, pointing ahead of them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry walked beside Mr Lupin toward the black marble obelisk, thinking
silently. It seemed to Harry that this adventure was essentially
misguided; he had no use for grief counselling, that was not Harry’s
chosen path. So far as Harry was concerned, the five stages of grief
were Rage, Remorse, Resolve, Research, and Resurrection. (Not that the
usual ‘five stages of grief’ had any experimental evidence whatsoever
that Harry had ever heard about.) But Mr Lupin had seemed too sincere to
refuse; and visiting James and Lily’s home was something Harry felt he
ought not to turn down. So Harry walked, feeling oddly detached; walking
silently through a play whose script he was not interested in reading.

Harry had been told that he wasn’t to wear the Cloak of Invisibility for
this journey, so that Mr Lupin could keep track of him.

Harry was practically certain that Dumbledore, or both Dumbledore and
Mad-Eye Moody, were following them invisibly to see if anyone tried for
the bait. There was no way Harry would have been let out of Hogwarts
with only Remus Lupin for a guard. Harry didn’t expect anything to
happen, though. He’d seen nothing to contradict the hypothesis that all
the danger centred on Hogwarts and only Hogwarts.

As the two of them walked closer toward the centre of town, the marble
obelisk transformed into—

Harry drew in a breath. He’d been expecting a heroic pose of James
Potter with wand levelled against Lord Voldemort, and Lily Potter with
arms outstretched in front of the crib.

Instead there was a man with untidy hair and glasses, and a woman with
her hair let down and a baby in her arms, and that was all.

“It looks very… normal,” Harry said, feeling an odd catch in his throat.

“Madam Longbottom and Professor Dumbledore put their foot down hard,”
said Mr Lupin, who was looking more at Harry than at the monument. “They
said that the Potters should be remembered as they had lived, not as
they had died.”

Harry looked at the statue, thinking. Very strange, to see himself as a
baby of stone, with no scar upon his forehead. It was a glimpse at an
alternate universe, one where Harry James Potter (no Evans-Verres to his
name) became an intelligent but ordinary wizarding scholar, maybe Sorted
into Gryffindor like his parents. A Harry Potter who grew up a proper
young wizard, knowing little of science for all that his mother was
Muggle-born. Ultimately changing… not much. James and Lily wouldn’t have
raised their son with what Professor Quirrell would have called ambition
and what Professor Verres-Evans would have called the common endeavour.
His birth parents would have loved him very much, and that would not
have been much help to anyone in the world except Harry. If someone had
undone their death—

“You were their friend,” Harry said, turning to look at Lupin. “For a
long time, since you were children.”

Mr Lupin nodded silently.

Professor Quirrell’s voice resounded in Harry’s approximate memory: The
most likely difference is not that you care more. Rather it is that,
being a more logical creature than they, only you are aware that the
role of Friend ought to require this of you…

“When Lily and James died,” Harry said, “did you think at all of whether
there might be some magical way to get them back? Like Orpheus and
Eurydice? Or the, what was it, Elrin brothers?”

“There is no magic which can undo death,” Mr Lupin said quietly. “There
are some mysteries which wizardry cannot touch.”

“Did you do a mental check of what you thought you knew, how you thought
you knew it, and how high the probability was of that conclusion?”

“What?” said Mr Lupin. “Could you repeat that, Harry?”

“I’m saying, did you think about it anyway?”

Mr Lupin shook his head.

“Why not?”

“Because it was already done, and over,” Remus Lupin said gently.
“Because wherever James and Lily are now, they would wish me to act for
the sake of the living, not the dead.”

Harry nodded silently. He’d been pretty sure of the answer to that
question before he’d asked. He’d already read that script. But he’d
asked anyway, just in case Mr Lupin had spent a week obsessing about it,
because Harry could have been wrong.

The soft voice of the Defence Professor seemed to speak in Harry’s mind.
Surely, if Lupin truly cared, he would not need special instruction for
something as simple as thinking for five minutes before giving up…

Yes, he would, Harry answered the mental voice. Human beings wouldn’t
suddenly obtain a skill like that just because they cared. I learned
about it because I’d read library books, produced by a huge scientific
edifice—

And that other part of Harry said, in that soft voice, But there is also
another hypothesis, Mr Potter, and it fits the data in a much less
complicated way.

No it doesn’t! How would people even know what to pretend, if nobody had
ever cared?

They don’t know. That is what you observe.

The two of them walked onward toward a certain house, past a long row of
occupied wizard cottages and other cottages overgrown with vines.

Coming finally to the house with half its top blown off, and green
leaves growing over into the inside; behind a shoulder-high wild-growing
hedge lining the pavement, and a narrow metal gate (Mr Hagrid had
probably stepped right over it, being unable to fit through). The gap in
the roof was like a giant mouth had taken a circular bite from the
house, leaving spines of wood, what had maybe been support beams,
sticking out. To the right side a single chimney still stood upright,
uneaten by the giant bite, but leaning dangerously without its former
support. Windows were shattered. Where there should have been a front
door were only splinters of wood.

To this place Lord Voldemort had come, silently, making less noise than
the dead leaves slithering along the pavement…

Remus Lupin put a hand upon Harry’s shoulder. “Touch the gate,” Mr Lupin
urged.

Harry reached out a hand and did so.

Like a fast-growing flower a sign burst from the tangled weeds in the
ground behind the gate, a wooden sign with golden letters, and it said:

On this spot, on the night of 31 October 1981,
Lily and James Potter lost their lives.

They were survived by their son, Harry Potter,
the only wizard ever to withstand the Killing Curse,
the Boy-Who-Lived, who broke You-Know-Who’s power.

This house has been left in its ruined state,
as a monument to the Potters,
as a reminder of their sacrifice.

In a blank space below the golden letters were written other messages,
dozens of them, magical ink that rose to the surface and gleamed
brightly enough to be read before fading and giving way to other
messages.

So my Gideon is avenged.

Thank you, Harry Potter. Fare well wherever you are.

We will always be in the Potters’ debt.

Oh James, oh Lily, I am sorry.

I hope you’re alive, Harry Potter.

There is always a price.

I wish our last words had been kinder, James. I’m sorry.

There is always a dawn after the night.

Rest well, Lily.

Bless you, Boy-Who-Lived. You were our miracle.

“I guess—” Harry said. “I guess that’s what people do—instead of trying
to make it better—” Harry stopped. The thought seemed unworthy of this
place. He looked up, and saw Remus Lupin gazing at him with a look so
gentle that Harry wrenched his eyes away to the blasted and broken roof.

You were our miracle. Harry had always heard the word ‘miracle’ in the
context of how, in the natural universe, there was no such thing. And
yet looking at the ruined house, he suddenly knew exactly what the word
meant, the note of grace all unexplained, the blessing inexplicable. The
Dark Lord had almost won, and then in one night all the darkness and
terror had ended, salvation without justification, a sudden dawn from
out of the darkness and even now nobody knew why—

If Lily Potter had lived beyond her confrontation with Lord Voldemort,
she would have felt that way when she saw her baby alive, afterwards.

“Let’s go,” whispered the baby boy, ten years later.

They went.

At the entrance to the graveyard was a kissing gate. Remus took out his
wand (Harry was already holding his) and there was a brief blur as they
stepped through.

Some of the stones rising up from the ground looked as old as the wall
in Oxford that his father had said was around a thousand years old.

Hallie Fleming, said the first stone that Harry saw, in a carving almost
invisibly faded with the erosion of time. Vienna Wood, said another.

It had been a long time since Harry had visited a graveyard. His mind
had still been childlike the last time he’d come to one, long before
he’d seen within Death’s shadow. Coming here now was… strange, and sad,
and puzzling, and this has been happening for so long, why haven’t
wizards tried to stop it, why aren’t they putting all their strength
into that like Muggles do with medical research, only more so, wizards
have more reason to hope…

“The Dumbledores lived in Godric’s Hollow too?” Harry said, as they
walked past a pair of relatively new stones saying Kendra Dumbledore and
Ariana Dumbledore.

“For a long, long time,” Mr Lupin said.

They walked further into the graveyard, far toward the end, past many
deaths that had been mourned.

Then Mr Lupin pointed at a linked double headstone, of marble still
white and unaged.

“Are there going to be messages there?” Harry said. He didn’t want to
deal any more with the way that other people dealt with death.

Mr Lupin shook his head.

They walked toward the linked white stones.

And stood before—

“What is this?” Harry whispered. “Who… who wrote this?”

JAMES POTTER
BORN 27 MARCH 1960
DIED 31 OCTOBER 1981

“Wrote what?” said Mr Lupin, puzzled.

LILY POTTER
BORN 30 JANUARY 1960
DIED 31 OCTOBER 1981

“This!” Harry cried. “The inscription!” There were tears welling up in
Harry’s eyes, at the brightness out of place and unexplained, the touch
of grace where no grace should have been, the mysterious blessing, tears
welling up at

THE LAST ENEMY THAT SHALL BE DESTROYED IS DEATH

“That?” Mr Lupin said. “That’s the… motto, I suppose you could call it,
of the Potters. Though I don’t think it was ever something as formal as
that. Just a saying handed down from long, long ago…”

“This—that—” Harry scrambled down to kneel beside the grave, touched the
inscription with a trembling hand. “How? Things like that can’t just be,
be genetic—”

Then Harry saw what tears had blurred, the faint carving of a line,
within a circle, within a triangle.

The symbol of the Deathly Hallows.

And Harry understood.

“They tried,” Harry whispered.

The three Peverell brothers.

Had they lost someone precious to them, was that where it had begun?

“With all their lives, they tried, and they made progress—”

The Cloak of Invisibility, that could defeat the Dementors’ sight.

“—but their research wasn’t finished—”

Hiding from Death’s shadow is not defeating Death itself. The
Resurrection Stone couldn’t really bring anyone back. The Elder Wand
couldn’t protect you from old age.

“—so they passed on the mission to their children, and their children’s
children.”

Generation after generation.

Until it came to me.

Could Time echo like that, rhyming, between this far into the future,
and that far in the past? It couldn’t be coincidence, could it? Not this
message, not in this place.

My family.

You really were, my mother and my father.

“It doesn’t mean resurrecting the dead, Harry,” Mr Lupin said. “It means
accepting death, and so being beyond death, mastering it.”

“Did James tell you that?” Harry said, his voice strange.

“No,” said Mr Lupin, “but—”

“Good.”

Harry rose up slowly from where he had been kneeling, feeling as though
he were pushing up a sun upon his shoulders, raising the dawn above the
horizon.

Of course other wizards have tried. I am not unique. I was never alone.
These feelings in my heart, they’re not so special, not in the wizard
world or the Muggle one.

“Harry, your wand!” There was a sudden excitement in Mr Lupin’s voice,
and when Harry raised his wand to look at it closely, he saw that it was
gleaming ever so faintly with a silver light, welling out of the wood.

“Cast the Patronus Charm!” urged Mr Lupin. “Try casting it again,
Harry!”

Oh, right. So far as Mr Lupin knows, I can’t—

Harry smiled, and even laughed a little. “I’d better not,” Harry said.
“If I tried to cast the spell in this state of mind, it’d probably kill
me.”

“What?” said Mr Lupin. “The Patronus Charm doesn’t do that!”

Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres raised his left hand, still laughing,
and wiped away some more tears.

“You know, Mr Lupin,” Harry said, “it really takes a baroque
interpretation to think that somebody would be walking around, pondering
how death is just something we all have to accept, and communicate their
state of mind by saying, ‘The last enemy that shall be destroyed is
death.’ Maybe someone else thought it sounded poetic and picked up the
phrase and tried to interpret it differently, but whoever said it first
didn’t like death much.” Sometimes it puzzled Harry how most people
didn’t seem to even notice when they were twisting something around to
the exact opposite of its obvious reading. It couldn’t be a raw
brainpower thing, people could see the obvious reading of most other
English sentences. “Also ‘shall be destroyed’ refers to a change of
future state, so it can’t be about the way things are now.”

Remus Lupin was staring at him with wide eyes. “You certainly are James
and Lily’s child,” the man said, sounding rather shocked.

“Yes, I am,” Harry said. But that wasn’t enough, he had to do something
more, so Harry raised his wand in the air and said, his voice as steady
as he could make it, “I am Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, the son of
Lily and James, of the house of Potter, and I accept my family’s quest.
Death is my enemy, and I will defeat it.”

Thrayen beyn Peverlas soona ahnd thrih heera toal thissoom Dath bey
yewoonen.

“What?” Harry said aloud. The words had popped up into his stream of
consciousness as though from his own thoughts, unexplained.

“What was that?” said Remus Lupin at the same time.

Harry turned, scanning the graveyard, but he didn’t see anything. Beside
him, Mr Lupin was doing the same.

Neither of them noticed the tall stone worn as though from a thousand
years of age, upon it a line within a circle within a triangle glowing
ever so faintly silver, like the light which had shone from Harry’s
wand, invisible at that distance beneath the still-bright Sun.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some time later

“Thank you again, Mr Lupin,” Harry said, the tall, faintly scarred man
was about to depart once more. “Though I really wish you hadn’t—”

“Professor Dumbledore said that I was to portkey us back to Hogwarts if
anything unusual happened, whether or not it seemed like an attack,”
Mr Lupin said firmly. “Which is eminently sensible.”

Harry nodded. And then, having carefully saved this question for last,
“Do you have any idea of what the words meant?”

“If I did, I wouldn’t tell you,” Mr Lupin said, looking rather severe.
“Certainly not without Professor Dumbledore’s permission. I can
understand your eagerness, but you should not go trying to uncover any
ancestral secrets of the Potters until you are an adult. That means
after you’ve passed your NEWTs, Harry, or at least your OWLs. And I
still think you’ve picked up entirely the wrong idea of what your family
motto is meant to say!”

Harry nodded, sighing internally, and bade Mr Lupin farewell.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry went back through Hogwarts, to the Ravenclaw Tower, feeling
strange, and strengthened. He would not have expected any of that, but
it had been all to the good.

He was passing through the Ravenclaw common room, on the way to his
dorm.

That was when the shining creature came to him, gleaming soft white
beneath the candle-fires of the Ravenclaw common room, as it slithered
out from nowhere, the silver snake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Þregen béon Pefearles suna and þrie hira tól þissum Déað béo gewunen.

Three shall be Peverell’s sons and three their devices by which Death
shall be defeated.

—Spoken in the presence of the three Peverell brothers,
in a small tavern on the outskirts of what would later be called
Godric’s Hollow.

97. Roles, Part VIII

FOR the second time that day, Harry’s eyes filled with tears. Heedless
of the puzzled eyes of the Ravenclaws in the common room, he reached out
to the silver creature which Draco Malfoy had sent, cradling it in his
arms like a live thing; and stumbled off in the direction of his dorm,
heading half-blindly for the bottom of his trunk, as the silver snake
waited silently in his arms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fifth meeting 10:12 a.m., Sunday, April 19th.

The debtor’s meeting which Lord Malfoy had demanded from Harry Potter,
who owed Lucius Malfoy a debt of some 58,203 Galleons, was held within
the Gringotts Central Bank, in accordance with the laws of Britain.

There had been some pushback from Chief Warlock Dumbledore, trying to
prevent Harry Potter from leaving the security of Hogwarts (a phrase
that caused Harry Potter to raise his fingers and silently make quote
marks in the air). For his own part, the Boy-Who-Lived had seemingly
pondered quietly, and then assented to the meeting, strangely compliant
in the face of his enemy’s demand.

The Headmaster of Hogwarts, who acted as Harry Potter’s legal guardian
in the eyes of magical Britain, had overruled his ward’s assent.

The Debts Committee of the Wizengamot had overruled the Headmaster of
Hogwarts.

The Chief Warlock had overruled the Debts Committee.

The Wizengamot had overruled the Chief Warlock.

And so the Boy-Who-Lived had departed under the heavy guard of Mad-Eye
Moody and an Auror trio for the Gringotts Central Bank; with Moody’s
bright-blue eye rotating wildly in every direction, as though to signal
to any possible attacker that he was On Guard and Constantly Vigilant
and would cheerfully incinerate the kidneys of anyone who sneezed in the
general direction of the Boy-Who-Lived.

Harry Potter watched more keenly than before, as they marched through
the wide-open front doors of Gringotts, beneath the motto Fortius Quo
Fidelius. On Harry’s last three visits to Gringotts he had merely
admired the marble pillars, the gold-burning torches, the architecture
not quite like the human parts of magical Britain. Since then had come
the Incident at Azkaban and other things; and now, on his fourth visit,
Harry was thinking about the Goblin Rebellions and goblins’ ongoing
resentment at not being allowed to own wands and certain facts which
hadn’t been in the first-year History textbook, which Harry had guessed
at by pattern matching and which Professor Flitwick had confirmed in a
very quiet voice. Lord Voldemort had killed goblins as well as
wizards—an incredibly stupid move on Lord Voldemort’s part, unless Harry
was really missing something—but what goblins thought of the
Boy-Who-Lived, Harry had no idea. Goblins had a reputation for paying
what they owed and taking what they thought owed them, along with a
reputation for interpreting those accounts in a somewhat prejudiced
fashion.

Today, the guards standing upright in armour at regular intervals around
the bank were staring at the Boy-Who-Lived with blank faces, and glaring
at Moody and the Aurors with flashes of bitter contempt. At the stands
and counters of the bank’s foyer, goblin tellers stared with equal
contempt at the wizards whose hands they were filling with Galleons; one
teller smiled a sharp-toothed grin at a witch who was looking angry and
desperate.

If I understand human nature correctly—and if I’m right that all the
humanoid magical species are genetically human plus a heritable magical
effect—then you’re not likely to become friends with a wizard just
because I’m polite to you, or say that I’m sympathetic. But I wonder if
you would back the Boy-Who-Lived in a bid to overthrow the Ministry, if
I promised to revoke the Wand Law afterwards… or if I quietly gave you
wands, and spell books, in exchange for your support… is that why the
secret of wand-making is restricted to people like Ollivander? Though if
you really are human, just plain human, then the goblin nation probably
has its own internal horrors, its own Azkabans, for that is also human
nature; in which case sooner or later I must overthrow or reform your
own government as well. Hm.

An aged goblin appeared before them, and Harry inclined his head with
careful courtesy, a gesture that the aged goblin returned with an abrupt
half-nod. There was no wild train ride; instead the aged goblin ushered
them into a short hallway that terminated in a small waiting room, with
three goblin-sized benches and one wizard-sized chair, within which
nobody sat.

“Do not sign anything that Lucius Malfoy gives you,” Mad-Eye Moody said.
“Nothing, do you understand me, lad? If Malfoy hands you a copy of The
Wonderful Adventures of the Boy-Who-Lived and asks you for an autograph,
tell him that you’ve sprained a finger. Don’t pick up a quill for a
single second while you’re in Gringotts. If someone hands you a quill,
break the quill and then break your own fingers. Do I need to explain
further, son?”

“Not particularly,” Harry said. “We also have lawyers in Muggle Britain,
and they’d think your lawyers are cute.”

A short time later Harry Potter handed his wand over to an armoured
goblin guard who frisked him with all manner of interesting-looking
probes, and gave his pouch to Moody to keep.

And then Harry stepped through another door, and a brief waterfall of
Thief’s Downfall, which evaporated from his skin as soon as he stepped
out.

On the other side of the door was a larger room, richly panelled and
appointed, with a great golden table stretching across it; two huge
leather chairs on one side of the table, and a small wooden stool on the
other, the debtor’s perch. Two goblins in full armour, wearing ornate
earpieces and glasses, stood watch around the room. Neither side would
have wands or any other device of magic, and the goblin guards would
attack immediately if anyone dared to use wandless magic within this
peaceable meeting supervised by Gringotts Bank. The ornate earpieces
would prevent the goblin guards from hearing the conversation unless
directly addressed, the eyepieces would leave the wizards’ faces as
blurs. It was, in short, something along the lines of actual security,
at least if you were an Occlumens.

Harry climbed up onto his uncomfortable wooden stool, thinking Subtle in
a tone of some mental sarcasm, and awaited his creditors.

It was only a brief interval later, much shorter than the time a debtor
could legally be made to wait, when Lucius Malfoy entered into the room,
taking up his leather chair with motions worn smooth by practice. His
snake-headed cane was missing from his hands, his long white mane
drifted behind him the same as ever, his face could not be read.

Quietly following behind him was a young boy with white-blonde hair, now
wearing black robes far finer than any Hogwarts uniform, who followed in
his father’s footsteps with a controlled face. A boy who was also
Harry’s creditor to the tune of forty Galleons, and also of House
Malfoy, and therefore, technically, covered by the Wizengamot resolution
enabling this meeting.

Draco. Harry didn’t say it aloud, didn’t let his own expression change.
He could not think of what to say. Not even I’m sorry seemed
appropriate. Harry hadn’t dared say any of that to Draco’s Patronus
either, when they had set up this meeting in a few brief exchanges; and
not only because Lucius might be listening. It had been enough to know
that Draco’s happy thought was still happy, and that he had still been
able to want Harry to know it.

Lucius Malfoy spoke first, his voice level, his face set. “I do not
understand what is happening at Hogwarts, Harry Potter. Would you care
to explain it to me?”

“I don’t know,” Harry said. “If I understood these events I would not
have let them happen, Lord Malfoy.”

“Then answer me this question. Who are you?”

Harry gazed evenly at the face of his creditor. “I’m not You-Know-Who,
like you thought I was,” Harry said. Not being a complete idiot, he’d
eventually worked out who Lucius Malfoy had thought he was talking to in
front of the Wizengamot. “Obviously I’m not a normal boy. Equally
obviously, that probably has something to do with the Boy-Who-Lived
business. But I don’t know what, or why, any more than you do. I asked
the Sorting Hat and it didn’t know either.”

Lucius Malfoy nodded distantly. “I could not think of any reason why you
would pay a hundred thousand Galleons to save a mudblood’s life. No
reason save one, which would account for her power and blood thirst
alike; but then she died at the hands of a troll, and yet you lived. And
also my son has told me much of you, Harry Potter, which did not make
the tiniest bit of sense, I have heard the ravings of the mad in St.
Mungo’s and they were more sensible by far than the events which my son
told me under Veritaserum that you enacted, and that portion of this
raving lunacy, which you personally carried out, I would have you
explain to me, and now.”

Harry turned to look at Draco, who looked back at him with a face that
was screwing up, being controlled, and then tensing up again.

“I’d also,” Draco Malfoy said in a high and wavering voice, “like, to
know, why, Potter.”

Harry closed his eyes, and spoke without looking. “A boy raised by
Muggles who thought he was clever. You saw me, Draco, and you thought of
how very useful it would be if the Boy-Who-Lived, out of all the other
children in your year, could be shown the truth of things, if we could
be friends. And I thought the same thing about you. Only, you and I
believed different things were true. Not that I’m saying that there are
different truths, I mean, there’s different beliefs but there’s only one
reality, only one universe that can make those beliefs true or false—”

“You lied to me.”

Harry opened his eyes and looked at Draco. “I would prefer to say,”
Harry said, not quite with a steady voice, “that the things I told you
were true from a certain point of view.”

“A certain point of view?” Draco Malfoy looked every bit as angry as
Luke Skywalker’d had the right to be, and not in a mood to accept
Kenobi’s excuses, either. “There’s a word for things that are true from
a certain point of view. They’re called lies!”

“Or tricks,” Harry said evenly. “Statements which are technically true
but which deceive the listener into forming further beliefs which are
false. I think it’s worth making that distinction. What I told you was a
self-fulfilling prophecy; you believed that you couldn’t deceive
yourself, so you didn’t try. The skills you’ve learned are real, and it
would have been very bad for you to start fighting against them
internally. People can’t make themselves believe that blue is green by
an act of will, but they think they can, and that can be almost as bad.”

“You used me,” said Draco Malfoy.

“I only used you in ways that made you stronger. That’s what it means to
be used by a friend.”

“Even I know that’s not what friendship is!”

Now Lucius Malfoy spoke again. “For what purpose? To what end?” Even the
elder Malfoy’s voice was not quite steady. “Why?”

Harry regarded him for a moment, and then turned to Draco. “Your
father’s probably not going to believe this,” Harry said. “But you,
Draco, should be able to see that everything which has happened is
compatible with this hypothesis. And that any more cynical hypothesis
wouldn’t explain why I didn’t press you harder when you thought I had
leverage, or why I taught you so much. I thought that the heir of House
Malfoy, who’d been publicly seen to grab a Muggle-born girl to stop her
falling off the roof of Hogwarts, would be a good compromise candidate
to lead magical Britain after the reformation.”

“So you would have me believe,” Lucius Malfoy said in a thin voice,
“that you are claiming to be mad. Well, let us leave all that aside.
Tell me who set that troll on Hogwarts.”

“I don’t know,” Harry said.

“Tell me who you suspect, Harry Potter.”

“I have four suspects. One of them is Professor Snape—”

“Snape?” Draco burst out.

“The second, of course, is the Defence Professor of Hogwarts, just
because he’s the Defence Professor.” Harry would have left him out, not
wanting to bring Professor Quirrell to the Malfoys’ attention if he was
innocent, but Draco might have challenged him on that. “The third, you
wouldn’t believe me about. The fourth is a catch-all category called
Everything Else.” And the fifth, Lord Voldemort, I do not think I should
name to you.

Lucius Malfoy’s face contorted in a snarl. “Do you think I cannot
recognize bait upon your hook? Tell me about this third possibility,
Potter, the one you wish me to believe is the true answer, and leave
aside games.”

Harry regarded Lord Malfoy steadily. “I once read a book I wasn’t
supposed to read, and it told me this: communication is an event that
takes place between equals. Employees lie to their bosses, who, in turn,
expect to be lied to. I’m not playing coy, I’m observing that it’s
simply not possible, in our present situation, for me to tell you about
the third suspect, and have you believe that my story was anything but a
lure.”

Draco spoke then. “It’s Father, isn’t it?”

Harry gave Draco a startled look.

Draco spoke evenly. “You suspect that Father sent the troll into
Hogwarts to get at Granger, don’t you? That’s what you’re thinking,
isn’t it!”

Harry opened his mouth to say, Actually, no, and then managed to think
ahead and stop himself for once in his life.

“I see…” Harry said slowly. “That’s what this is about. Lucius Malfoy
publicly says that Hermione won’t get away with what she’s done, and lo
and behold, a troll kills her.” Harry smiled then, in a way that bared
his teeth. “And if I deny that here, then Draco, who isn’t an Occlumens,
can then testify under Veritaserum that the Boy-Who-Lived does not
suspect Lucius Malfoy of having sent a troll into Hogwarts to kill
Hermione Granger, sworn to the Noble House of Potter, whose blood debt
was recently purchased for a hundred thousand Galleons et cetera.” Harry
leaned back slightly, though his wooden stool had no back with which to
do it properly. “But now that it’s been pointed out, I see that it’s
very reasonable. Obviously you killed Hermione Granger, just like you
threatened to do in front of the whole Wizengamot.”

“I did not,” Lucius Malfoy said, expressionless once more.

Harry bared his teeth again in that non-smile. “Well then, in that case,
there must be someone else out there who killed Hermione and messed with
the Hogwarts wards, the same person who earlier tried to frame Hermione
for Draco Malfoy’s murder. Either you killed Hermione Granger after
being paid for her life, or you blamed your son’s attempted murder on an
innocent girl and took all my family’s money under false pretences, one
of those two things must be true.”

“Perhaps you killed her in hopes of your money being returned.” Lucius
Malfoy had leaned forward, and was staring hard at Harry.

“Then I would not have given away my money for her in the first place.
As you already know. Don’t insult my intelligence, Lord Malfoy—no, wait,
sorry, you just had to say that in case Draco had to testify to it,
never mind.”

Lucius Malfoy sat back in his chair and stared.

“I tried to tell you, Father,” Draco said under his breath, “but nobody
can imagine Harry Potter until they’ve actually met him…”

Harry tapped a finger on his cheek. “So people are starting to figure
out the blatantly obvious? I’m surprised, actually. I wouldn’t have
predicted that would happen.” Harry had by now caught the general rhythm
of Professor Quirrell’s cynicism and was able to generate it
independently. “I wouldn’t think a newspaper would be able to report on
a concept like ‘Either X or Y must be true, but we don’t know which.’ I
would only expect journalists to report stories consisting of series of
atomic propositions, like ‘X is true’, ‘Y is false’, or ‘X is true and Y
is false’. Not more complex logical connectors like ‘If X is true then Y
is true, but we don’t know whether X is true’. And all your supporters
ought to be rapidly switching between ‘You can’t prove that Lord Malfoy
killed Granger, it could’ve been someone else’ and ‘You can’t prove
there was someone else to frame Granger’, so long as it’s uncertain they
should be trying to have it both ways at once… wait, don’t you own the
Daily Prophet?”

“The Daily Prophet,” Lucius Malfoy said thinly, “which I certainly do
not own, is far too respectable to publish any such scurrilous nonsense.
Unfortunately, not all wizards of influence are so reasonable.”

“Ah. Got it.” Harry nodded.

Lucius glanced at Draco. “The rest of what he said—was any of it
important?”

“No, Father, it was not.”

“Thank you, son.” Lucius returned his gaze to Harry. His voice, when he
spoke, was something closer to his usual drawl, cool and confident. “It
is possible that I could be persuaded to show you some favour, if you
admitted before the Wizengamot what you clearly know, that I was not
responsible for this deed. I would be willing to reduce your remaining
debt to House Malfoy quite significantly, or even adjust the terms to
allow later repayment.”

Harry regarded Lucius Malfoy steadily. “Lucius Malfoy. You are now
perfectly aware that Hermione Granger was, in fact, framed using your
son as bait, that she was False-Memory-Charmed or worse, and that House
Potter held nothing against you before that. My counterproposal is that
you return my family’s money, I announce before the Wizengamot that
House Potter holds House Malfoy no animus, and we present a united front
against whoever’s doing this. We decide to screw the roles we’re
supposed to play, and ally with each other instead of fighting. It could
be the one thing the enemy doesn’t expect us to do.”

There was a brief silence in the room, except for the two goblin guards
who went on breathing regardless.

“You are mad,” Lucius Malfoy said coldly.

“It’s called justice, Lord Malfoy. You cannot possibly expect me to
cooperate with you while you are holding the wealth of House Potter
under what you now know to be false pretences. I understand how it
looked to you at the time, but you know better now.”

“You have nothing to offer me worth a hundred thousand Galleons.”

“Don’t I?” Harry said distantly. “I wonder. I think it quite probable
that you care more about the long-term welfare of House Malfoy than
about whichever political issue the last generation’s failed Dark Lord
made his personal hobbyhorse.” Harry glanced significantly at Draco.
“The next generation is drawing its own battle lines and forming new
alliances. Your son can be frozen out of that, or he can go straight to
the top. Is that worth more to you than forty thousand Galleons you
weren’t particularly expecting and don’t particularly need?” Harry
smiled thinly. “Forty thousand Galleons. Two million Muggle pounds
sterling. Your son knows some things about the size of the Muggle
economy that might surprise you. They’d find it amusing, that the fate
of a country was revolving around two million pounds sterling. They’d
think it was cute. And I think much the same, Lord Malfoy. This isn’t
about me being desperate. This is about you getting a fair chance to be
fair.”

“Oh?” said Lord Malfoy. “And if I refuse your fair chance, what then?”

Harry shrugged. “Depends what sort of coalition government gets put
together without the Malfoys. If the government can be reformed
peacefully and it would disturb the peace to do otherwise, I’ll pay you
the money out of petty cash. Or maybe the Death Eaters will be retried
for past crimes and executed as a matter of justice, as a result of due
legal process, of course.”

“You truly are mad,” Lucius Malfoy said quietly. “You have no power, no
wealth, and yet you say such things to me.”

“Yes, it’s silly to think I could scare you. After all, you’re not a
Dementor.”

And Harry went on smiling. He’d looked it up, and apparently a bezoar
would heal almost any poison if you shoved it into someone’s mouth fast
enough. Maybe that wouldn’t repair radiation damage from Transfigured
polonium, but then again, maybe it would. So Harry had looked up the
freezing points of various acids, and it turned out that sulphuric acid
would freeze at just ten degrees Celsius, which meant Harry could buy a
litre of acid on the Muggle market, freeze it solid, and Transfigure it
down to a tiny little unnoticeable water-ice chip to be flipped into
someone’s mouth and ingested. No bezoar would compensate for that, once
the Transfiguration wore off. Harry had no intention of saying it out
loud, of course, but now that he’d failed decisively to prevent any
deaths during his quest, he had no further intention of being restrained
by the law or even the code of Batman.

Last chance to live, Lucius. Ethically speaking, your life was bought
and paid for the day you committed your first atrocity for the Death
Eaters. You’re still human and your life still has intrinsic value, but
you no longer have the deontological protection of an innocent. Any good
person is licensed to kill you now, if they think it’ll save net lives
in the long run; and I will conclude as much of you, if you begin to get
in my way. Whoever sent the troll after Granger must have targeted you
too and hit you with some curse that makes former Death Eaters melt into
a pile of goo. Very sad.

“Father,” Draco said in a small voice. “I think you should consider it,
father.”

Lucius Malfoy looked at his son. “You jest.”

“It’s true. I don’t think Potter just made up his books, nobody could
have written all that and there were things in them that I could check
for myself. And if even half of all that is true, he’s right, a hundred
thousand Galleons won’t mean much. If we give it to him he really will
be friends with House Malfoy again—the way he thinks of being friends,
anyway. And if we don’t, he’ll be your enemy, whether it’s in his own
interests or not, he’ll just go after you. Harry Potter really does
think like that. It’s not about money to him, it’s about what he thinks
is honour.”

Harry Potter inclined his head, still smiling.

“But let’s get one part of it straight,” Draco said, now staring
directly at him. There was a fierce light in his eyes. “You wronged me.
And you owe me.”

“Acknowledged,” Harry said quietly. “Conditional on the rest of it, of
course.”

Lucius Malfoy opened his mouth to say who-knew-what and then closed it
again. “Mad,” he said again.

There was a long father-and-son argument during which Harry managed to
keep his mouth shut.

When it seemed that even Draco wouldn’t be able to persuade his father,
Harry spoke up again, and proposed his intended next steps, if the
Houses of Potter and Malfoy could cooperate.

Then came more argument between Lucius and Draco, during which Harry
again stayed silent.

Finally Lucius Malfoy’s eyes turned to gaze at Harry. “And you believe,”
Lucius Malfoy said, “that you can persuade Longbottom and Bones to go
along with this notion, even if Dumbledore opposes it.”

Harry nodded. “They’ll be suspicious of your involvement, of course. But
I’ll tell them that it was my plan to start with, and that should help.”

“I suppose,” Lucius Malfoy said after a pause, “that I could have a
contract drawn up, absolving you of almost all the remaining debt, if by
some chance I do go along with this mad idea. It shall need more
guarantees, of course—”

Harry promptly reached into his robes and drew out a parchment,
unfolding it and spreading it across the golden table. “I’ve taken the
liberty myself, actually,” Harry said. He’d spent some careful hours in
the Hogwarts library with the law books available. Thankfully, so far as
Harry could tell, the laws of magical Britain were charmingly simple by
Muggle standards. Writing that the original blood debt and payment was
cancelled, the Potters’ wealth and all other vault items would be
returned, and the remaining debt annulled, all with no fault to the
Malfoys, was only a few more lines than it took to say out loud. “I had
to promise my keepers not to sign anything you gave me. So I made sure
to compose this myself, and sign it before I left.”

Draco emitted a choked laugh.

Lucius read through the contract, smiling humourlessly. “How charmingly
straightforward.”

“I also promised not to touch a quill while I was in Gringotts,” Harry
said. He reached into his robes again and drew out a Muggle pen, along
with a sheet of normal paper. “Will this wording be all right?” Harry
rapidly scribbled down a legal-sounding statement to the effect that
House Potter didn’t hold House Malfoy responsible in any way for
Hermione Granger’s murder and didn’t believe they had anything to do
with it, then held up the paper in the air for Lord Malfoy’s inspection.

Lord Malfoy looked at the paper, rolled his eyes slightly, and said,
“Good enough, I suppose. Though to have the proper meaning, you should
use the legal term indemnify rather than exonerate—”

“Nice try, but no. I know exactly what that word means, Lord Malfoy.”
Harry took his parchment and began copying down his original wording
more carefully.

When Harry was done, Lord Malfoy reached across the golden table and
took the pen, looking at it thoughtfully. “One of your Muggle artefacts,
I suppose? What does this do, son?”

“It writes without needing an inkwell,” Draco answered.

“I can see that. I suppose some might find it an amusing trinket.”
Lucius smoothed the parchment contract over the table, then set his hand
by the line for signatures, tapping the pen thoughtfully on the starting
spot.

Harry wrenched his eyes away, up to Lucius Malfoy’s face, forcing
himself to breathe regularly, not quite able to stop his muscles from
tensing.

“Our good friend, Severus Snape,” said Lucius Malfoy, still tapping the
pen on the line awaiting his signature. “The Defence Professor, calling
himself Quirrell. Now I ask again, who is your third suspect, Harry
Potter?”

“I would strongly advise that you sign first, Lord Malfoy, if you’re
going to do so anyway. You will benefit from this information more if
you do not think I am trying to persuade you of something.”

Another humourless smile. “I shall take my chances. Speak, if you wish
this to continue.”

Harry hesitated, then said evenly, “My third suspect is Albus
Dumbledore.”

The tapping pen stilled on the parchment. “A strange allegation,” Lucius
drawled. “Dumbledore lost much face when a Hogwarts student died within
his tenure. Do you suppose that I will believe anything of him, only
because he is my enemy?”

“He is one suspect among several, Lord Malfoy, and not necessarily the
most plausible. But the reason I was able to kill a full-grown mountain
troll was that I had a weapon which Dumbledore gave to me, at the start
of the school year. It’s not strong evidence, but it’s suspicious. And
if you’re thinking that murdering one of his students is not
Dumbledore’s style, well, the same thought had occurred to me.”

“It’s not his style?” Draco Malfoy said.

Lucius Malfoy shook his head in a measured, careful movement. “Not
quite, my son. Dumbledore is particular in his evils.” Lord Malfoy
leaned back into his chair, and then sat quite still. “Tell me of this
weapon.”

“I am not yet certain I should go into details about that in your
presence, Lord Malfoy.” Harry took a breath. “Let me be clear on this. I
am not trying to sell you on the idea that Dumbledore is behind this,
just raising the possibility—”

Then Draco Malfoy spoke. “The device Dumbledore gave you—was it
something to kill trolls? I mean, just trolls? Can you tell us that?”

Lucius turned his head to look at his son with some surprise.

“No…” Harry said slowly. “It wasn’t specifically a sword of troll
slaying, or anything like that.”

Draco’s eyes were intent. “Would the device have worked against an
assassin?”

Not if they had shields raised. “No.”

“A fight in school?”

An expanding rock in the throat is inherently lethal. “No. I don’t think
it was meant for use against humans.”

Draco nodded. “So just magical creatures. Would it have been a good
weapon against an angry Hippogriff, or something like that?”

“Does the Stunning Hex work on Hippogriffs?” Harry said slowly.

“I don’t know,” said Draco.

“Yes,” said Lucius Malfoy.

Compared to trying to target a Wingardium Leviosa and Finite Incantatem—
“Then a Stunning Hex would be a better way of dealing with a
Hippogriff.” Put that way, it did seem increasingly like a Transfigured
rock was an optimal weapon only against a flesh-and-blood magical
creature with spell-resistant skin. “But… I mean, it might not have been
intended as a weapon at all, I used it in a strange way, it could have
just been a crazy whim—”

“No,” Lucius Malfoy said quietly. “Not a whim. Not coincidence. Not
Dumbledore.”

“Then it’s him,” Draco said. Slowly Draco’s eyes narrowed, and he gave a
vicious nod. “It’s been him since the beginning. The court Legilimens
said that someone had used Legilimency on Granger. Dumbledore admitted
that it was him. And I bet the wards did go off when Granger cursed me
and Dumbledore just ignored them.”

“But—” Harry said. He looked at Lucius, wondering if it was really to
his advantage to question this idea. “What would be his motive? Are we
going to say he’s evil and leave it at that?”

Draco Malfoy jumped out of his chair and began pacing around the room,
black robes swishing behind the young boy, the goblin guards staring at
him in some surprise through their enchanted goggles. “To figure out a
strange plot, look at what happens, then ask who benefits. Except that
Dumbledore didn’t plan on you trying to save Granger at her trial, he
tried to stop you from doing that. What would’ve happened if Granger had
gone to Azkaban? House Malfoy and House Potter would’ve hated each other
forever. Of all the suspects, the only one who wants that is Dumbledore.
So it fits. It all fits. The one who really committed the murder
is—Albus Dumbledore!”

“Um,” Harry said. “But why give me an anti-troll weapon? I said it was
suspicious, I didn’t say that it made any sense.”

Draco nodded thoughtfully. “Maybe Dumbledore thought you’d stop the
troll before it got Granger and then he could blame Father for sending
it. A lot of people would be very angry if they thought Father had even
tried to do something like that, in Hogwarts. Like Father said,
Dumbledore must’ve lost face when people found out that a student had
actually died in Hogwarts, being safe is what Hogwarts is famous for. So
that part probably wasn’t supposed to happen.”

Harry’s mind involuntarily flashed back to the horror in Dumbledore’s
eyes when he’d seen Hermione Granger’s body.

Would I have got there in time, if the Weasley twins hadn’t had their
magic map stolen? Could that have been the plan? And then, though
Dumbledore didn’t know it, somebody stole their map, and I was too late…
but no, that doesn’t make much sense, I found out too late, how could
Dumbledore have guessed that I’d use a broomstick… well, he did know I
had one…

There was no way a plan like that could work.

And it hadn’t.

But someone going a little bit senile might expect it to work, and a
phœnix might not know the difference.

“Or,” Draco Malfoy continued, still pacing energetically, “maybe
Dumbledore had an enchanted troll around, and he expected you to defeat
it some other time, for some other plot, and then he used the troll on
Granger instead. I can’t imagine Dumbledore had this all planned since
the first week of lessons—”

“I can imagine,” Lucius Malfoy said in low tones. “I have seen such,
from Dumbledore.”

Draco nodded decisively. “Then I was never supposed to die in the first
plot. Dumbledore knew Professor Quirrell was checking on me, or
Dumbledore planned to have someone else find me in time—I couldn’t have
testified against Granger if I was dead, and he’d have lost face if I’d
died. But my leaving Hogwarts and not being around to lead Slytherin
would be just right for him. And then the next time Harry was supposed
to stop the troll before it got Granger and everyone was supposed to
blame you, Father, only that time it didn’t go the way Dumbledore
planned.”

Lucius Malfoy lifted his grey eyes, from where he’d been gazing with
open surprise at his son. “If this is true—but I wonder if Harry Potter
is only playing at being reluctant to believe it.”

“Maybe,” Draco said. “But I’m pretty sure he isn’t.”

“Then, if it is true…” Lucius Malfoy’s voice trailed off. A slow fury
was lighting in his eyes.

“What would we do, exactly?” Harry said.

“That, too, is clear to me,” Draco said. He whirled on them and raised a
finger high in the air. “We shall find the proof to convict Dumbledore
of this crime, and bring him to justice!”

Harry Potter and Lucius Malfoy looked at each other.

Neither of them quite knew what to say.

“My son,” Lucius Malfoy said after a time, “truly, you have done very
well this day.”

“Thank you, Father!”

“However, this is not a play, we are not Aurors, and we do not put our
trust in trials.”

Some of the light went out of Draco’s eyes. “Oh.”

“I, ah, do have a sentimental fondness for trials,” Harry interjected. I
cannot believe I am having this conversation. He needed to go home and
take a sheet of paper and a pencil and try to figure out whether Draco’s
reasoning actually made sense. “And evidence.”

Lucius Malfoy turned his gaze to Harry Potter then, and his eyes
simmered in pure grey fury.

“If you have deceived me,” Lucius Malfoy said in tones of low anger, “if
all this is a lie, then I will not forgive. But if this is not
deception…. Bring me the proof to convict Dumbledore of this murder
before the Wizengamot, or evidence enough to have him cast down, and
there is nothing that House Malfoy will not do for you, Harry Potter.
Nothing.”

Harry took a deep breath. He needed to sort all this out and figure out
the actual probabilities, but he didn’t have time. “If it is Dumbledore,
then removing him from the game board leaves a huge hole in Britain’s
power structure.”

“So it does,” Lucius Malfoy said with a grim smile. “Did you have
ambitions of filling it yourself, Harry Potter?”

“Some of your opposition might not like that. They could fight.”

“They will lose,” Lucius Malfoy said, now with a face hard like iron.

“So this is what I’d want House Malfoy to do for me, Lord Malfoy, if
Dumbledore gets removed because of me. When the opposition is most
frightened—that’s when they’ll be offered a last-minute arrangement to
avoid a civil war. Some of your allies might not prefer it, but there’ll
be a lot of neutrals who’ll be glad to see stability. The bargain will
be that instead of you taking over right away, Draco Malfoy will take
power when he comes of age.”

“What?” Draco said.

“Draco has testified under Veritaserum that he tried to help Hermione
Granger. I bet there’d be a lot of people in the opposition who’d take a
chance on him rather than fight. I’m not sure how exactly you’d enforce
it—Unbreakable Vows or Gringotts contracts or what—but there’ll be some
sort of enforceable compact about power going to Draco after he
graduates Hogwarts. I’ll throw any support the Boy-Who-Lived has behind
that bargain. Try to persuade Longbottom and Bones and so on. Our first
plan paves the way for that later, if you’re careful to act honourable
when you deal with Longbottom and Bones this time around.”

“Father, I swear I didn’t—”

Lucius’s face twisted into a grim smile. “I know you didn’t, son. Well.”
The white-haired man stared across the mighty golden table at Harry
Potter. “Those terms are acceptable to me. But fail in any part of our
agreement, whether our first bargain, or the second, and there shall be
consequences for you, Harry Potter. Clever words will not halt that.”

And Lucius Malfoy signed the parchment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mad-Eye Moody had been staring at the bronze door of the Gringotts
meeting room for what seemed like hours, insofar as a man could stare at
any one thing when his gaze always saw in all directions.

The trouble with trying to be suspicious of a man like Lucius Malfoy,
Moody thought, was that you could spend an entire day thinking of
everything he might be up to, and still not have finished.

The door cracked open and Harry Potter trudged out, small beads of sweat
still on his forehead.

“Did you sign anything?” Mad-Eye demanded upon the instant.

Harry Potter looked at him silently, then reached into his robes and
drew out a folded parchment. “The goblins are already executing this,”
said Harry Potter. “They made three copies before I left.”

“MERLIN DAMN IT SON—” Moody paused as his Eye caught sight of the second
half of the document as Harry Potter slowly, as though reluctantly,
began to unfold the top upward. A glance sufficed to take in the
paragraphs drawn in careful handwriting, Lucius Malfoy’s elegant
signature below Harry Potter’s. And then Moody exploded, even as the top
half of the document also began to enter his Sight. “You exonerate House
Malfoy of any involvement in Hermione Granger’s death? Do you have any
idea what you’ve done, you little fool? Why in Merlin’s name would you
do something like WHAT—”

98. Roles, Final

Sunday, April 19th, 6:34 p.m.

DAPHNE Greengrass walked quietly toward the Greengrass room below the
Slytherin dungeons, the privilege of an Ancient House; on her way to
drop off her trunk from the Hogwarts Express, before she joined the
other students for dinner. The whole private area had been hers alone
ever since Malfoy had gone. Her hand, held behind her, made repeated
come-along gestures at her huge emerald-studded trunk, which seemed
hesitant to follow. Maybe the enchantments on the sturdy old family
device needed to be reapplied; or maybe her trunk was reluctant to
follow her into Hogwarts, which was no longer safe.

There’d been a long talk between Mother and Father, after they’d been
told about Hermione; with Daphne hiding around a doorway to listen,
choking back her tears and trying not to make sounds.

Mother had said that the sad fact was that if only one student died
every year, well, that still made Hogwarts safer than Beauxbatons, let
alone Durmstrang. There were more ways for a young witch to die than
being murdered. Beauxbatons’s Transfiguration Master just wasn’t on the
same level as McGonagall, Mother had said.

Father had soberly remarked how important it was for the Greengrass heir
to stay at Hogwarts where all the other Noble families sent their
children to school (it was the reason for the old tradition of the Noble
families synchronizing the birth of their heirs, to put them in the same
year of Hogwarts, if they could). And Father had said that being heiress
to a Most Ancient House meant you couldn’t always stay away from
trouble.

She could have done without hearing that last part.

Daphne gulped hard, as she turned the doorknob, and opened the door.

“Miss Greengrass—” whispered a shadowy, silvery-robed figure.

Daphne screamed and slammed the door and drew her wand and turned to
run.

“Wait!” cried the voice, now higher and louder.

Daphne paused. That couldn’t possibly be who it had sounded like.

Slowly, Daphne turned, and opened the door again.

“You!” Daphne said in astonishment, as she saw the face beneath the
hood. “I thought you were—”

“I come back to you now,” the silvery-robed figure said in a strong
voice, “at the turn of the—”

“What are you doing in my bedroom?” shrieked Daphne.

“I heard you can cast the mist form of the Patronus Charm. Can I see?”

Daphne stared, and then her blood began to burn. “Why?” she said,
keeping her wand level. “So you can kill everyone in Slytherin who casts
un-Slytherin spells? We all know who it was had Hermione killed!”

The figure’s voice rose. “I testified under Veritaserum that I tried to
help Miss Granger! I really was trying to help her, when I grabbed her
hand on the roof, when I helped her off the floor—”

Daphne kept her wand level. “Like your father couldn’t tamper with the
Aurors’ record, if he wanted to! I wasn’t born yesterday, Mister
Malfoy!”

Slowly, as if not to cause alarm, the silver-robed figure drew a wand
from his robes. Daphne’s hand tightened on her own wand, but then she
recognized the position of the fingers on the wand, the stance the
figure was assuming, and she drew a shocked breath—

“Expecto Patronum!”

Silver light leapt from the end of the other’s wand—and condensed,
forming a shining serpent that seemed to coil in the air as though
nesting there.

She just gaped.

“I did try to help Hermione Granger,” Draco Malfoy said with a level
voice. “Because I know the sickness at the heart of Slytherin’s House,
the reason why so many of us can’t cast the Patronus Charm any more, is
hate. Hate of Muggle-borns, or just anyone really. People think that’s
all Slytherin is about now, not cunning or ambition or honourable
nobility. And I even know, because it’s obvious if you just look, that
Hermione Granger wasn’t weak at magic.”

Daphne’s mind had gone completely blank. Her eyes darted around
nervously, just to check that there wasn’t blood coming from under the
doors, like the last time Something had Broken.

“And I’ve also figured out,” Draco Malfoy said quietly, as the silver
snake went on shining with unmistakeable light and warmth, “that
Hermione Granger never really tried to kill me. Maybe she was
False-Memory-Charmed, maybe she was Legilimized, but now that she’s been
murdered, it’s obvious that Miss Granger was the target in the first
place, when somebody tried to set her up for murdering me—”

“D-do-do you know what you’re saying?” Daphne’s voice broke. If Lucius
Malfoy heard his heir saying that—he’d skin Draco and turn him into
trousers!

Draco Malfoy smiled, metallic robes gleaming in the light of his full
corporeal Patronus; it was a smile both arrogant and dangerous, like
being turned into a pair of leather trousers was beneath his concerns.
“Yes,” said Draco, “but it doesn’t matter now. House Malfoy is returning
House Potter’s money and cancelling the debt.”

Daphne walked over to her bed and then fell on it, hoping she could wake
up from the dream once she was in bed.

“I’d like you to join a conspiracy,” said the figure in the shining
robes. “Everyone in Slytherin who can cast the Patronus Charm, and
everyone who can learn. That’s how we’ll know to trust each other, when
the Silvery Slytherins meet.” With a dramatic gesture, Draco Malfoy cast
back his hood. “But it won’t work without you, Daphne Greengrass. You
and your family. Your mother will negotiate it with Father, but I’d like
the Greengrasses to hear the proposal from you, first.” Draco Malfoy’s
voice lowered grimly. “There is much we must speak of, before we eat
dinner.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry Potter had, apparently, taken to being invisible; they had
glimpsed his hand only briefly, when he was handing them the list,
written on strange not-parchment. Harry had explained that, all things
considered, he didn’t really think it was smart for him to be findable
except on special occasions, so he was just going to deal with people as
a disembodied floating voice from now on, or as a brilliant silver light
that hid behind corners where nobody could see it, and which could
always find his friends no matter where they tried to hide. It was, in
all honesty, one of the creepiest things which Fred and George had ever
heard, over a lifetime which had included filling the shoes of every
student in second-year Slytherin with Transfigured live millipedes. Fred
and George didn’t think this could possibly be good for anyone’s sanity,
but they didn’t know what to say. It couldn’t be denied, they’d seen
with their own four eyes, that Hogwarts…

…wasn’t safe…

“I don’t know who you went to for the False Memory Charm on Rita
Skeeter,” said the sourceless voice of Harry Potter. “Whoever it is…
probably won’t be able to fill this order directly, but they may know
someone who can get things from the Muggle world. And—I know it may cost
extra, but as few people as possible should know that Harry Potter is
related to this.” Another flash of a small boy’s hand, and a bag hit the
ground with the clinking noise. “Some of these items are expensive even
in the Muggle world, and your contact may have to go outside Britain;
but one hundred Galleons will be enough to pay for it all, I hope. I’d
tell you where the Galleons came from, but I don’t want to spoil
tomorrow’s surprise.”

“What is this stuff?” said Fred or George, as they looked over the list.
“Our father is a Muggle expert—”

“—and we don’t recognize half this stuff—”

“—why, we don’t recognize any of it—”

“—just what are you planning to do?”

“Things have become serious,” Harry’s voice said softly. “I don’t know
what I’ll have to do. I may need the power of the Muggles, not just the
wizards, before this is done—and I might need it right away, with no
time to prepare. I’m not planning to use any of this. I just want it
around in case of… contingencies.” Harry’s voice paused. “Obviously I
owe you more than I can ever repay and you won’t let me give you any of
what you deserve, I don’t even know how to say thank you properly, and
all I can do is hope that some day when you grow up you’ll be more
sensible about this whole thing and would you please take a ten percent
commission—”

“Shut up, you,” said George or Fred.

“For God’s sake, you went after a troll for me and Fred had his ribs
broken!”

They both just shook their heads. Harry had stayed behind when they’d
told him to run, and stepped forward to distract the troll from eating
George. Harry was the kind of person, they knew, who’d think that
something like that didn’t cancel out what he owed the Weasley twins,
that his own deed wasn’t properly commensurate. But what the Weasleys
knew, and Harry wouldn’t understand until he was older, was that it
meant that nothing was owed, or ever could be owed between them. It was
a strange kind of selfishness, they thought, that Harry could understand
kindness within himself—never dreaming of asking of money from anyone
he’d helped more than they’d helped him, or calling that a debt—while
being apparently unable to conceive that others might want to act the
same way toward him.

“Remind me to buy you a copy of the Muggle novel Atlas Shrugged,” the
sourceless voice said. “I’m starting to understand what sort of person
can benefit from reading it.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Monday, April 20th, 7:00 p.m.

It happened without any intervention or sign from the Head Table, as the
students had finished their subdued dinner; it happened with no
permission or forgiveness asked from the Professors or the Headmaster.

Shortly after the dessert dishes had appeared, a student stood up from
the Slytherin Table and calmly made his way, not to the front of the
Head Table, but toward the opposite side of the Four Tables of Hogwarts.
A few whispers broke out at the sight of the white-blonde short-cropped
hair, as Draco Malfoy stood there, silently regarding all of Hogwarts.
Draco Malfoy had said almost nothing since his surprise return. The
Slytherin had condescended neither to confirm nor deny that he had
returned because, with Hermione Granger dead at his family’s hand, he no
longer had anything to fear.

Then Draco Malfoy took up a spoon in one hand, and a glass of water in
the other, and began tapping, producing a clear ringing sound.

Ting.

Ting.

Ting.

It produced more excited babble at first. At the Head Table, the various
Professors looked in puzzlement toward the Headmaster in his great
chair, but the Headmaster gave no sign, and so the faculty did nothing.

Draco Malfoy continued tapping the spoon upon his glass, until the room
fell silent, waiting.

Then another student arose from the Ravenclaw table, and made his way to
where Draco Malfoy was standing, turning to face Hogwarts at his side.
Breaths were drawn in surprise; those two should have been the bitterest
of enemies—

“I, and my Father, the Lord of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Malfoy,” Draco Malfoy said in a clear voice, “have come to realize that
there are ill forces at work in Hogwarts. That these ill forces, did
wish Hermione Granger harm. That Hermione Granger was perhaps compelled,
against her will, to raise her hand against our House; or perhaps she
and I were both Memory-Charmed. We now say that whoever dared use the
heir of Malfoy so, is the enemy of House Malfoy, upon whom we shall have
our vengeance. And that honour be served, we have returned all moneys
taken from House Potter, and cancelled all debt.”

Then Harry Potter spoke. “House Potter acknowledges that it was an
honest mistake, and holds House Malfoy no ill will. We believe and
publicly say that House Malfoy was not at fault in Hermione Granger’s
death. Whoever harmed Hermione Granger is the enemy of House Potter,
upon whom we shall have our vengeance. Both of us.”

Then Harry Potter began to walk back to the Ravenclaw table, and the
babble of sheer, utter, reality-crashing bewilderment began to explode—

Draco Malfoy resumed tapping his spoon against his water glass, creating
a clear ringing chime.

Ting.

Ting.

Ting.

And other students arose, from other tables, making their way to where
Draco Malfoy stood, arranging themselves at his side, or behind him, or
before him.

There was a dread silence in the Great Hall, a sense of the world
shifting, of realigning Powers, almost tangible in the air.

“My father, Owen Greengrass, with the consent and full backing of my
mother, the Lady of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Greengrass,”
Daphne Greengrass spoke.

“And my forefather, Charles, of the House of Nott,” said the former
Lieutenant Nott, once Theodore of Chaos, now standing behind Draco
Malfoy.

“And my grand-aunt, Amelia, of the House of Bones, also Director of the
Department of Magical Law Enforcement,” said Susan Bones, who stood next
to Daphne Greengrass, beside whom she had fought.

“And my grandmother, Augusta, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
Longbottom,” said Neville Longbottom, who had returned for this one
night.

“And my father, Lucius, the Lord Malfoy, of the Noble and Most Ancient
House of Malfoy!”

“Together with Alanna Howe constituting a majority of the Hogwarts Board
of Governors!” Daphne Greengrass said clearly. “Have, to ensure the
safety of all students, including their own children, passed the
following Educational Decrees upon the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“First!” Daphne said. Daphne was trying to keep her trembling under
control, as she faced the Four Houses at the forefront of the five.
There was only so far her parents’ lessons in speech-making could take
her. Daphne’s eyes darted down quickly to her hand, upon which, written
with a quill in faint red ink, cues to her lines had been written.
“Students are not to go anywhere alone, not even to the toilets! You
will travel in groups of at least three, and every group must have a
sixth-year or seventh-year student!”

“Second!” Susan Bones said from behind her, voice almost firm. “To
further ensure the students’ safety, nine Aurors have been dispatched to
Hogwarts to form an Auxiliary Protective Force!” Susan took a small,
round glass object from within her robes, one of the communicators that
the DMLE used, which they’d all been given. Susan raised it to her mouth
and said, her voice now higher, “Auror Brodski, this is Susan Bones.
Enter!”

The doors to the Hall slammed open, and in marched nine Aurors in the
reinforced leather gear they used when on duty. At once they spread out,
two Aurors taking up station by each of the four tables, and the last
took up watch at the Head Table. There were more gasps.

“Third!” said Draco Malfoy, his voice commanding. Malfoy had apparently
memorized his own lines, since there was nothing written on his hand
that Daphne could see. “In the face of a common enemy who does not balk
at killing students from any House, the four Houses of Hogwarts must
come together and act as one! To emphasize this, the House Points system
is temporarily suspended! All Professors will encourage solidarity
between Houses, by decree of the Hogwarts Board of Governors!”

“Fourth!” recited Neville Longbottom. “All students not already in the
Defence Professor’s after-school classes, will receive special training
in self-defence by Auror instructors!”

“Fifth!” Theodore Nott yelled in a menacing tone. “All fighting in the
corridors or anywhere outside of Defence lessons will be dealt with
severely! Fight together or don’t fight at all!”

“Sixth!” said Daphne Greengrass, and took a deep breath. When she’d
found out what was planned, she’d made her own little extra request to
Mother through the Floo. Even with Lucius Malfoy going along with Amelia
Bones—a thought her mind was still having trouble grasping—the
Greengrass swing vote had still been vital, since Jugson and his own
faction had refused to back Malfoy. Not to mention that Bones didn’t
trust Malfoy, and Malfoy didn’t trust Bones. So Mother had demanded, and
the Greengrasses had received—“Since Memory Charms have been used on
students without setting off wards, it is possible that someone on the
Hogwarts faculty may be implicated. Therefore! The Auxiliary Protective
force reports directly to my father, Lord Greengrass!” And this part was
only symbolic, she knew, there’d be no reason anyone wouldn’t just
contact the Aurors directly; but it might turn into more, some day,
which was why she’d asked Mother to demand it—“And if anyone wants to
report something to the Auxiliary Protectors, they can talk to the
Aurors, or go through me—” Daphne’s arm swept behind her to indicate the
gathered students. “The duly appointed President of the Auxiliary
Protective Special Committee!”

And Daphne paused dramatically. They’d all rehearsed this part.

“We don’t know who the enemy is,” said Neville, whose voice did not
squeak.

“We don’t know what the enemy wants,” said Theodore, still looking
menacing.

“But we know who the enemy is attacking,” said Susan, as fierce as when
she’d taken on three seventh-year students.

“The enemy is attacking Hogwarts students,” said Draco Malfoy, clear and
commanding, like all this was his natural element.

“And Hogwarts,” spoke Daphne of Greengrass, feeling her blood burn like
it never had before in her life, “is going to fight back.”

99. Roles, Aftermath

TEN days later, the first dead unicorn was found in the Forbidden
Forest.

6. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and the Philosopher’s Stone

100. Precautionary Measures, Part I

May 13th, 1992

ARGUS Filch’s face appeared twisted in the light of the oil lamp he
held, shadows dancing over his face. Behind them the doors of Hogwarts
quickly receded, and the dark grounds moved closer. The track they now
walked was muddy and indistinct.

The trees, branches formerly bare with winter, were not yet fully clad
with spring; their branches stretched up toward the sky like lean
fingers, skeletons visible amid the thin foliage. The moon was bright,
but clouds scudding across it often threw them into darkness, lit only
by the dim flames of Filch’s lamp.

Draco kept a firm grip on his wand.

“Where are you taking us?” said Tracey Davis. She’d been caught along
with Draco by Filch, on their way to an attempted meeting of the Silvery
Slytherins after curfew hours, and likewise given a detention.

“You just follow me,” said Argus Filch.

Draco was feeling rather annoyed with the whole affair. The Silvery
Slytherins ought to be recognized school business. There was no reason
why a secret conspiracy shouldn’t have permission to meet after curfew,
if it was for the greater good of Hogwarts. If this happened one more
time he’d talk to Daphne Greengrass and Daphne would talk to her father
and then Filch would learn the wisdom of looking the other way where
Malfoys were concerned.

The lights of the Hogwarts castle had diminished in the distance when
Filch spoke again. “I bet you’ll think twice about breaking a school
rule again, won’t you, eh?” Filch turned his head, away from the lamp,
so that he could leer at the four students following him. “Oh yes… hard
work and pain are the best teachers if you ask me… It’s just a pity they
let the old punishments die out… hang you by your wrists from the
ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in my office, keep ’em
well oiled in case they’re ever needed…”

“Hey!” Tracey said, a touch of indignation entering her voice. “I’m too
young to hear about that—that sort of—you know! Especially if the chains
are well oiled!”

Draco wasn’t paying attention. Filch simply wasn’t in Amycus Carrow’s
league.

Behind them, one of the two older Slytherins following them snickered,
though she didn’t say anything. Beside her was the other, a tall boy
with a Slavic cast to his face, and who still spoke with an accent.
They’d been caught for some unrelated offense, having to do with the
type of thing Tracey went on about, and looked to be in their third or
fourth year. “Pfeh,” said the taller boy. “In Durmstrang they hang you
upside-down by your toes. By one toe, if you are insolent. Hogwarts was
soft even in the old days.”

Argus Filch was silent for around half a minute, as though trying to
think of a proper rejoinder, and then gave a chuckle. “We’ll see what
you say about that… when you learn what you’ll be doing tonight! Ha!”

“I said, I’m too young for that sort of thing!” said Tracey Davis. “It
has to wait until I’m older!”

Ahead of them was a cottage with lighted windows, though the proportions
seemed wrong.

Filch whistled, a high sharp sound, and a dog began barking.

From the cottage stepped forth a figure, making the trees seem too short
around it. The figure was followed by a dog that seemed like a puppy by
comparison, until you looked at it apart from the taller silhouette and
realized the dog was huge, more like a wolf.

Draco’s eyes narrowed, before he caught himself. As a Silvery Slytherin
he wasn’t supposed to be Prejudiced against any sentient being,
especially not where other people might see him.

“What’s this?” said the figure, in the loud gruff voice of the
half-giant. His umbrella lit up with a white glow, brighter than Filch’s
dim lamp. In his other hand he held a crossbow; a quiver of short bolts
was strapped to his upper arm.

“Students serving detention,” Filch said, loudly. “They’re to help you
search the Forest for… whatever’s been eating ’em.”

“The Forest?” gasped Tracey. “We can’t go in there at night!”

“That’s right,” said Filch, turning from Hagrid to glare at them. “It’s
into the Forest you’re going, and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come
out in one piece.”

“But—” said Tracey. “There’s werewolves, I’ve heard, and vampires, and
everyone knows what happens when there’s a girl and a werewolf and a
vampire all at the same time!”

The huge half-giant was frowning. “Argus, I ’ad in mind you an’ maybe a
few seventh-years. ’Ere’s not much point in bringing along help if I’m
to watch over ’em the whole time.”

Argus’s face lit with cruel satisfaction. “That’s their lookout, isn’t
it? Should’ve thought of them werewolves before they got in trouble,
shouldn’t they? Send them out alone. I shouldn’t be too friendly to
them, Hagrid. They’re here to be punished, after all.”

The half-giant gave a massive sigh (it sounded like a normal man having
all the air driven out of his lungs by a Bludgeoning Hex). “Yeh’ve done
yer bit. I’ll take over from here.”

“I’ll be back at dawn,” said Filch, “for what’s left of them,” he added
nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle, his lamp
bobbing away in the darkness.

“Right then,” said Hagrid, “now, listen carefully, ’cause it’s dangerous
what we’re gonna do tonight an’ I don’ want no-one takin’ risks. Follow
me over here a moment.”

He led them to the very edge of the Forest. Holding his lamp up high he
pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the
thick black trees. A light breeze blew over Draco’s head as he looked
into the Forest.

“There’s summat in there that’s bin eatin’ unicorns,” the huge man said.

Draco nodded; he distantly remembered hearing something along those
lines a couple of weeks ago, toward the end of April.

“Did you call us to track down a trail of silvery blood to a wounded
unicorn?” Tracey said excitedly.

“No,” said Draco, though he managed to stop the reflexive sneer. “Filch
gave us the detention note at lunch today, at noon. Mr Hagrid wouldn’t
wait that long to find a wounded unicorn, and if we were looking for
something like that, we’d look in the day when it’s bright. So,” Draco
held up a finger, like he’d seen Inspector León do in plays, “I infer
that we’re looking for something that only comes out at night.”

“Aye,” said the half-giant, sounding thoughtful. “Yer not what I
expected, Draco Malfoy. Not what I expected at all. An’ you’d be Tracey
Davis, then. I’ve heard of yeh. One of poor Miss Granger’s lot.” Rubeus
Hagrid looked over at the two older Slytherins, peering at them in the
light of his glowing umbrella. “An’ who’d yeh be, again? Don’t remember
seeing much of yeh, boy.”

“Cornelia Walt,” said the witch, “and this is Yuri Yuliy,” indicating
the Slavic-looking boy who’d spoken of Durmstrang. “His family is
visiting from the Ukrainian lands, so he’s in Hogwarts just for the
year.” The older boy nodded, a faintly contemptuous cast on his face.

“This is Fang,” Hagrid said, indicating the dog.

The five of them set off into the woods.

“What could be killing unicorns?” Draco said after they’d walked for a
few minutes. Draco knew a bit about Dark creatures, but he couldn’t
remember anything that was said to prey on unicorns. “What sort of
creature does that, does anyone know?”

“Werewolves!” said Tracey.

“Miss Davis?” Draco said, and when she looked at him, he silently
pointed a finger up at the moon. It was waxing gibbous, but not yet
full.

“Oh, right,” said Tracey.

“No weres in the Forest,” said Hagrid. “They’re plain wizards most o’
the time, ’member. Couldn’t be wolves either, they’re not near fast
enough ter catch a unicorn. Powerful magical creatures, unicorns are, I
never knew one ter be hurt before.”

Draco listened to this, thinking about the puzzle almost despite
himself. “Then what is fast enough to catch a unicorn?”

“Wouldn’t ’ave been a matter of speed,” Hagrid said, giving Draco an
indecipherable glance. “’Ere’s no end ter the ways that creatures hunt.
Poison, darkness, traps. Imps as can’t be seen or heard or remembered,
even while they’re eatin’ yer face. Always summat new an’ wonderful to
learn.”

A cloud passed over the moon, casting the forest into shadow lit only by
the glow of Hagrid’s umbrella.

“Meself,” Hagrid continued, “I think we might ’ave a Parisian hydra on
our ’ands. They’re no threat to a wizard, yeh’ve just got to keep
holdin’ ’em off long enough, and there’s no way yeh can lose. I mean
literally no way yeh can lose so long’s yeh keep fightin’. Trouble is,
against a Parisian hydra, most creatures give up long before. Takes a
while to cut down all the heads, yeh see.”

“Bah,” said the foreign boy. “In Durmstrang we learn to fight Buchholz
hydra. Unimaginably more tedious to fight! I mean literally, cannot
imagine. First-years not believe us when we tell them winning is
possible! Instructor must give second order, iterate until they
comprehend.”

They walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into the Forest,
until the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were
so thick.

Then Draco saw it, thick splashes on the roots of trees, gleaming a
brighter colour beneath the moonlight. “Is that—”

“Unicorn’s blood,” Hagrid said. The huge man’s voice was sad.

In a clearing ahead, visible through the tangled branches of a great
oak, they saw the fallen creature, splayed beautiful and sad upon the
ground, the dirt around her shining moon-silver with pooled blood. The
unicorn was not white, but pale blue, or appearing so beneath the moon
and night sky. Her slender legs stuck out at odd angles, obviously
broken, and her mane spread across the dark leaves, green-black but with
a sheen like pearls. On her flank was a small white shape like a
starburst, a centre surrounded by eight straight rays. Half her side had
been ripped away, the edges ragged like the marks of teeth, bones and
inner organs exposed.

A strange choking sensation rose in Draco’s throat.

“That’s ’er,” Hagrid said, his sad whisper as loud as a normal man’s
voice. “Just where I found ’er this mornin’, dead as a dead doorknob.
She is—was—the first unicorn I e’er met in these woods. I called ’er
Alicorn, not that it matters ter ’er any more, I s’pose.”

“You named a unicorn Alicorn,” said the older girl. Her voice was a bit
dry.

“But she doesn’t have wings,” Tracey said.

“An alicorn’s a unicorn’s horn,” Hagrid said, now louder. “Don’t know
where yeh all started thinking it meant a unicorn with wings, ’ere’s no
such thing I ever heard. It’s just like naming a dog Fang,” indicating
the huge wolf-like dog that barely came to his knees. “What’d you have
called ’er? Hannah, or some such? I gave ’er a name as would’ve meant
summat ter ’er. Common courtesy, I call it.”

Nobody said anything to this, and after a further moment, the huge man
gave a sharp nod. “We’ll start our search from ’ere, the last place it
struck. We’re gonna split inter two parties an’ follow the trail in
diff’rent directions. Yeh two, Walt and Yuliy—yeh’ll go that way, and
take Fang. There’s nothin’ that lives in the Forest that’ll hurt yeh if
yer with Fang. Send up green sparks if yeh find summat interestin’, an’
send up red sparks if anyone gets in trouble. Davis, Malfoy, with me.”

The Forest was black and silent. Rubeus Hagrid had dimmed the light of
his umbrella after they’d set out, so that Draco and Tracey had to steer
themselves by the light of the moon, not without occasional trips and
falls. They walked past a mossy tree stump, the sound of running water
speaking of a stream somewhere close by. Now and then a ray of moonlight
through the branches above lit a spot of silver blue blood on the fallen
leaves; they were following the trail of blood, toward where the
creature must have first struck the unicorn.

“There’s rumours about yeh,” Hagrid said in a low voice after they’d
walked for a while.

“Well, they’re all true,” Tracey said. “All of them.”

“Not yeh,” Hagrid said. “Did yeh really testify under Veritaserum that
yeh tried to help Miss Granger, three times it was?”

Draco weighed his words for a while, and finally said, “Yes.” It
wouldn’t have done to appear too eager to claim credit.

The huge man shook his head, his great feet still stomping silently
through the woods. “I’m surprised, teh be honest. And yeh too, Davis,
tryin’ to put the halls in order. Are yeh sure the Sorting Hat put yeh
in the right place? There’s not a single witch or wizard who went bad
who wasn’t in Slytherin, so it’s always been said.”

“That’s not true,” Tracey said. “What about Xiaonan Tong the Black
Raven, Spencer of the Hill, and Mister Kayvon?”

“Who?” said Hagrid.

“Just some of the best Dark Wizards from the last two centuries,” Tracey
said. “They’re probably the best from Hogwarts who weren’t from
Slytherin.” Her voice fell, lost its enthusiasm. “Miss Granger always
told me I should read up on anything I—”

“Anyway,” Draco said quickly, “that’s not really relevant, Mr Hagrid.
Even if—” Draco worked it around in his head, trying to translate the
difference between probability of Slytherin given Dark and probability
of Dark given Slytherin into non-scientific language. “Even if most Dark
Wizards are from Slytherin, very few Slytherins are Dark Wizards. There
aren’t all that many Dark Wizards, so not all Slytherins can be one.” Or
as Father had said, while any Malfoy should certainly know much of the
secret lore, the more… costly rituals were better left to useful fools
like Amycus Carrow.

“So yeh’re saying,” Hagrid said, “that most Dark Wizards are Slytherins…
but…”

“But most Slytherins are not Dark Wizards,” Draco said. He had a weary
feeling they’d be at this a while, but like fighting a hydra, the
important thing was to not give up.

“I never thought of it that way,” the huge man said, sounding awestruck.
“But, well, if yeh’re not all a house of snakes, then why—get behind
that tree!”

Hagrid seized Draco and Tracey and hoisted them off the path behind a
towering oak. He pulled out a bolt and fitted it into his crossbow,
raising it, ready to fire. The three of them listened. Something was
slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailing
along the ground. Hagrid was squinting up the dark path, but after a few
seconds, the sound faded away.

“I knew it,” Hagrid murmured. “There’s summat in here that shouldn’ be.”

They went after where the rustling sound had come from, with Hagrid in
the lead and Tracey and Draco both gripping their wands at the ready,
but they found nothing, despite searching in a widening circle with
their ears straining for the faintest sound.

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Draco kept looking over
his shoulder, a feeling nagging at him that they were being watched.
They had just passed a bend in the path when Tracey yelled and pointed.

In the distance, a shower of red sparks lit the air.

“You two wait here!” Hagrid shouted. “Stay where yeh are, I’ll come back
for yeh!”

Before Draco could say a word, Hagrid spun and crashed away through the
undergrowth.

Draco and Tracey stood looking at each other, until they heard nothing
but the rustling of leaves around them. Tracey looked scared, but trying
to hide it. Draco was feeling more annoyed than anything else.
Apparently Rubeus Hagrid, when he had formed his plans for tonight, had
not spent even five seconds visualizing the consequences if something
actually went wrong.

“Now what?” said Tracey, her voice a little high.

“We wait for Mr Hagrid to come back.”

The minutes dragged by. Draco’s ears seemed sharper than usual, picking
up every sigh of the wind, every cracking twig. Tracey kept looking up
at the moon, as though to reassure herself that it wasn’t full yet.

“I’m—” Tracey whispered. “I’m getting a little nervous, Mr Malfoy.”

Draco thought about it a bit. To be honest, there was something… well,
it wasn’t that he was a coward, or even that he was scared. But there
had been a murder at Hogwarts and if he’d been watching himself in a
play, having just been abandoned in the Forbidden Forest by a
half-giant, he would currently feel like yelling at the boy on stage
that he should…

Draco reached into his robes, and took out a mirror. Tapping the surface
showed a man in red robes, who frowned almost immediately.

“Auror Captain Eneasz Brodski,” the man said clearly, causing Tracey to
start with the loudness in the quiet forest. “What is it, Draco Malfoy?”

“Put me on ten-minute check-in,” Draco said. He’d decided not to
complain directly about his detention. He did not want to look like a
spoiled brat. “If I don’t respond, come get me. I’m in the Forbidden
Forest.”

Inside the mirror, the Auror’s brows rose. “What are you doing in the
Forbidden Forest, Mr Malfoy?”

“Looking for the unicorn-eater with Mr Hagrid,” Draco said, and tapped
the mirror off, putting it back in his robes before the Auror could ask
anything about detentions or say anything about serving it out without
complaining.

Tracey’s head turned toward him, though it was a little too dim to read
her expression. “Um, thanks,” she whispered.

The few leaves which had emerged on their branches rustled as another,
colder breeze blew through the forest.

Tracey’s voice was a little louder when she spoke again. “You didn’t
have to—” she said, now sounding a little shy.

“Don’t mention it, Miss Davis.”

The dark silhouette of Tracey put her hand to her cheek, as though to
conceal a blush that wasn’t visible anyway. “I mean, not for me—”

“No, really,” Draco said. “Don’t mention it. At all.” He would have
threatened to take out the mirror and order Captain Brodski not to
rescue her, but he was afraid she would consider that flirting.

Tracey’s silhouetted head turned from him, looked away. Finally she
said, in a smaller voice, “It’s too soon, isn’t it—”

A high scream echoed through the woods, a not-quite-human sound, the
scream of something like a horse; and Tracey shrieked and ran.

“No, you numbskull!” yelled Draco, plunging after her. The sound had
been so eerie that Draco wasn’t certain where it came from—but he
thought that Tracey Davis might, in fact, be running straight toward the
source of that eerie scream.

Brambles whipped at Draco’s eyes, he had to keep one hand in front of
his face to shield them, trying not to lose track of Tracey because it
seemed obvious that, if this was a play, and they got separated, one of
them was going to die. Draco thought of the mirror secured within his
robes but he somehow knew that if he tried to take it out one-handed
while running, the mirror would inevitably fall and be lost—

Ahead of them, Tracey had stopped, and Draco felt relieved for an
instant, before he saw.

Another unicorn lay on the ground, surrounded by a slowly widening pool
of silver blood, the edge of the blood creeping across the ground like
spilled mercury. Her coat was purple, like the colour of the night sky,
her horn exactly the same twilight colour as her skin, her visible flank
marked by a pink star-blotch surrounded by white patches. The sight tore
at Draco’s heart, even more than the other unicorn because this one’s
eyes were staring glassily right at him, and because there was a—

—blurring, twisting form—

—feeding on an open wound on the unicorn’s side, like it was drinking
from it—

—Draco couldn’t understand, somehow couldn’t recognize what he was
seeing—

—it was looking at them.

The blurring, seething, unrecognisable darkness seemed to turn to regard
them. A hiss came from it, like the hiss of the deadliest snake which
ever had existed, something more dangerous by far than any Blue Krait.

Then it bent back over the wound in the unicorn, and continued to drink.

The mirror was in Draco’s hand, and it remained lifeless as his finger
mechanically tapped at the surface, over and over.

Tracey was holding her wand now, saying things like “Prismatis” and
“Stupefy” but nothing was happening.

Then the seething outline rose up, like a man rising to his feet only
not so; and it seemed to scuttle forward, moving with a strange
half-jump across the dying unicorn’s legs, approaching the two of them.

Tracey tugged at his sleeve and then turned to run, run from something
that could hunt down unicorns. Before she could take three steps there
came another terrible hiss, burning his ears, and Tracey fell to the
ground and did not move.

Somewhere in the back of his mind, Draco knew that he was about to die.
Even if the Auror checked his mirror this very instant, there was no way
anyone could get here fast enough. There was no time.

Running hadn’t worked.

Magic hadn’t worked.

The seething outline came closer, while Draco tried, in his last
moments, to solve the riddle.

Then a blazing silver ball of light plunged out of the night sky and
hung there, illuminating the forest as bright as daylight, and the
seething outline leapt backwards, as though in horror of the light.

Four broomsticks plunged out of the sky, three Aurors with bright
multicoloured shields and Harry Potter holding his wand aloft, seated
behind Professor McGonagall within a larger shield.

“Get out of here!” roared Professor McGonagall—

—an instant before the seething thing gave forth another terrible hiss,
and all the shielding spells winked out. The three Aurors and Professor
McGonagall fell off their broomsticks and dropped heavily to the forest
floor, lying motionless.

Draco couldn’t breathe, the most intense fear he’d ever felt in his life
gripping all through his chest, sending tendrils around his heart.

Harry Potter, who had remained untouched, silently guided his broomstick
toward the ground—

—and then leapt off to stand between Draco and the seething outline,
interposing himself like a living shield.

“Run!” said Harry Potter, turning his head half-back to look at Draco.
The silver moonlight gleamed on his face. “Run, Draco! I’ll hold it
off!”

“You can’t fight that thing alone!” Draco cried aloud. A nausea was in
his stomach, a churning sensation that, looking back in memory, seemed
both like and unlike a sense of guilt, as though it had the sensations
but not quite all of the emotion.

“I must,” Harry Potter said grimly. “Go!”

“Harry, I—I’m sorry, for everything—I” Though later, looking back, Draco
couldn’t quite remember what he’d meant to apologize for, maybe it’d
been that he was planning to overthrow Harry’s conspiracy, all that time
ago.

The seething figure, now seeming blacker and more terrible, rose up into
the air, hovering off the ground.

“GO!” shouted Harry.

Draco turned and fled headlong into the woods,with the branches whipping
at his face. Behind him, Draco heard another terrible hiss, and Harry’s
voice rising, crying something that Draco couldn’t make out from the
distance; Draco turned his head for only an instant to look back, and in
that moment ran into something, hitting his head hard, and blacked out.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry held a tight grip on his wand, a Prismatic Sphere glowing around
him. He stared levelly at the seething, blurring form in front of him,
and said, “What on Earth are you doing?”

The seething blurs resolved, reformed, relaxed back into a hooded form.
Whatever concealment had been at work—a device rather than a Charm,
Harry guessed, since the magic had been able to affect him—had prevented
his mind from recognizing the shape or even that the shape was human.
But it hadn’t prevented Harry from recognizing the sharp sense of doom.

Professor Quirrell stood straight with silver blood all down the front
of his enshrouding black cloak, and gave a sigh, looking at the fallen
forms of three Aurors, Tracey Davis, Draco Malfoy, and Professor
McGonagall. “I had honestly thought,” Professor Quirrell murmured, “that
I jammed that mirror without alarm. What were two first-year Slytherins
doing alone in the Forbidden Forest? Mr Malfoy has more sense than this…
What a fiasco.”

Harry didn’t answer. The sense of doom was as strong as Harry could ever
remember feeling it, a feeling of power in the air so great that it was
almost tangible. Some part of him was still viscerally shocked at how
fast the shields surrounding the Aurors had been torn apart. He almost
hadn’t been able to see the successive lashes of colour which had torn
away the shields like tissue paper. It made the duel Professor Quirrell
had fought against the Auror in Azkaban look like a mockery, a child’s
game—though Professor Quirrell had claimed, then, that if he’d fought
for real the Auror would have been dead in seconds; and Harry knew now
that this was also true.

Just how high did the power ladder go?

“I take it,” Harry said, managing to keep his voice steady, “that your
eating unicorns has something to do with why you’ll get fired from the
Defence Professor position. I don’t suppose you’d care to explain in
considerable detail?”

Professor Quirrell looked at him. The almost tangible sense of power in
the air seemed to diminish, drawing back into the Defence Professor. “I
shall indeed explain myself,” the Defence Professor said. “I need to
cast a few Memory Charms first, and then we may go off and discuss it,
for it would not be wise for me to stay. You will return to this time
later, as I know.”

Harry willed himself to be able to see through the Cloak he had
mastered; and knew that another Harry stood beside him, hidden by his
own Deathly Hallow. Harry then told his Cloak to hide himself from
himself once more, and it did; being able to perceive your future self
meant having to match the memory later.

Harry’s own voice said, then, sounding strange in present-Harry’s ears,
“He has a surprisingly good explanation.”

Present-Harry remembered the words as best he could. Nothing more was
said between them.

Professor Quirrell walked to Draco’s form, and chanted the spell of the
False Memory Charm. The Defence Professor stood there for perhaps a
minute, seemingly lost to the world.

Harry had been studying Obliviations, these last couple of weeks—though
he couldn’t have helped cast the spells, unless he was willing to
exhaust himself almost completely, and for some reason they wanted an
Auror to lose every single life memory involving the colour blue. But
Harry had some idea, now, of the concentration which the far more
difficult False Memory Charm entailed. You had to try to live the other
person’s entire life inside your own head, at least if you wanted to
create the False Memories with less than a sixteen-to-one slowdown as
you separately crafted sixteen major tracks of memory. It might have
been quiet, there might have been no outward sign; but Harry knew
something of the difficulties now, and he knew to be impressed.

Professor Quirrell finished, and moved on to Tracey Davis, then the
three Aurors, and finally Professor McGonagall. Harry waited, but
future-Harry made no protest. It was possible that even Professor
McGonagall, if she’d been awake, wouldn’t have protested. It was not yet
the Ides of May, and apparently there would be a surprisingly good
explanation.

With a gesture, Draco’s stunned body was lifted, and sent a short
distance into the woods, before being carefully deposited on the ground.
Then a final gesture from Professor Quirrell ripped a huge chunk out of
the unicorn’s side, leaving behind ragged edges; the raw meat hovered in
the air, then wavered in Vanishment and was gone.

“Done,” Professor Quirrell said. “I must depart this place now,
Mr Potter. Come with me, and remain here.”

Professor Quirrell strode away, and Harry followed and remained behind.

They walked through the woods in silence for a time, before Harry heard
faint voices in the distance. The next set of Aurors, presumably, after
the first set had fallen out of contact. What his future self was
saying, Harry didn’t know.

“They won’t detect us, nor hear our speech,” said Professor Quirrell.
The sense of power and doom around the Defence Professor was still
strong. The man seated himself on a tree stump, one where the light of
the almost-full moon fell full on him. “I should first say that when you
speak to the Aurors, in the future, you should tell them that you
frightened away the seething dark, the same as you did that Dementor. It
is what Mr Malfoy will remember seeing.” Professor Quirrell gave a small
sigh. “It may cause some alarm, if they conclude that some horror kin to
Dementors, and strong enough to break the Aurors’ shields, is loose in
the Forbidden Forest. But I could not think of what else to do. If the
forest is better-guarded after this—but with any luck I have already
consumed what I need. Would you mind telling me how you arrived so
quickly? How did you know Mr Malfoy was in trouble?”

After Captain Brodski had learned that Draco Malfoy was in the Forbidden
Forest, seemingly in the company of Rubeus Hagrid, Brodski had begun
inquiring to find out who had authorized this, and had still been unable
to find out when Draco Malfoy had missed check-in. Despite Harry’s
protests, the Auror Captain, who was authorized to know about
Time-Turners, had refused to allow deployment to before the time of the
missed check-in; there were standard procedures involving Time. But
Brodski had given Harry written orders allowing him to go back and
deploy an Auror trio to arrive one second after the missed check-in
time. There had been a Patronus Charm to locate Draco, which Harry had
successfully willed to take the form of a ball of pure silver light, and
the flight of Aurors had arrived on time to the second.

“I’m afraid I couldn’t say,” Harry replied evenly. Professor Quirrell
was still a major suspect, and it was good for him not to know the
details. “Now why are you eating unicorns?”

“Ah,” Professor Quirrell said. “As to that…” The man hesitated. “I was
drinking the blood of unicorns, not eating them. The missing flesh, the
ragged marks upon the body—those were to obscure the case, to make it
seem like some other predator. The use of unicorn’s blood is too
well-known.”

“I don’t know it,” Harry said.

“I know you do not,” the Defence Professor said sharply. “Or you would
not be pestering me about it. The power of unicorn’s blood is to
preserve your life for a time, even if you are on the very verge of
death.”

There was a stretch of time when Harry’s brain claimed to be refusing to
process the words, which was of course a lie, because you couldn’t know
the meaning you weren’t allowed to process, without having already
processed it.

A strange sense of blankness overtook Harry, an absence of reaction,
maybe this was what other people felt like when someone went off-script,
and they couldn’t say or think of anything to do.

Of course Professor Quirrell was dying, not just occasionally ill.

Professor Quirrell had known he was dying. He’d volunteered to take the
Defence Professor position at Hogwarts, after all.

Of course he’d been getting worse the whole school year. Of course
illnesses which kept getting worse had a predictable destination at
their end.

Harry’s brain had surely known already, somewhere in the safe back of
his mind where he could refuse to process things he’d already processed.

Of course that was why Professor Quirrell wouldn’t be able to teach
Battle Magic next year. Professor McGonagall wouldn’t even have to fire
him. He would just be—

—dead.

“No,” Harry said, his voice a little shaky. “There has to be a way—”

“I am not stupid nor particularly eager to die. I have already looked. I
had to go this far simply to last out my lesson plans, having less time
than I had thought, and—” The head of the dark moonlit figure turned
away. “I think I do not want to hear about it, Mr Potter.”

Harry’s breath hitched. Too many emotions were bubbling up in him at
once. After denial came anger, according to a ritual someone had just
made up. And yet it seemed surprisingly appropriate.

“And why—” Harry’s breath hitched again. “Why isn’t unicorn’s blood
standard in healer’s kits, then? To keep someone alive, even if they’re
on the very verge of dying from their legs being eaten?”

“Because there are permanent side effects,” Professor Quirrell said
quietly.

“Side effects? Side effects? What kind of side effect is medically worse
than DEATH?” Harry’s voice rose on the last word until he was shouting.

“Not everyone thinks the same way we do, Mr Potter. Though, to be fair,
the blood must come from a live unicorn and the unicorn must die in the
drinking. Would I be here otherwise?”

Harry turned, stared at the surrounding trees. “Have a herd of unicorns
at St. Mungo’s. Floo the patients there, or use portkeys.”

“Yes, that would work.”

Harry’s face tightened, the only outward sign behind his trembling hands
of everything that was welling up inside him. He needed to scream,
needed some outlet, needed something he couldn’t name and finally Harry
levelled his wand at a tree and shouted “Diffindo!”

There was a sharp tearing sound, and a cut appeared across the wood.

“Diffindo!”

Another cut. Harry had learned the Charm only ten days previously, after
he’d started getting serious about self-defence. It was theoretically a
second-year Charm, but the anger pouring through him seemed to know no
bounds, he knew enough now not to exhaust himself and he still had power
yet.

“Diffindo!” Harry had aimed at a branch this time, and it plummeted to
the ground with a sound of twigs and leaves.

There didn’t seem to be any tears inside him, only pressure with no
outlet.

“I shall leave you to it,” Professor Quirrell said quietly. The Defence
Professor rose from his tree stump, the unicorn’s blood still moonlit on
the black cloak he wore, and drew his hood back over his head.

101. Precautionary Measures, Part II

HARRY stood, panting, in the midst of a brief wasted circle amid the
forest, more destruction than a first-year should have been able to
reach, by himself. The Severing Charm wouldn’t bring down a tree, so
he’d started partially Transfiguring cross-sections through the wood. It
hadn’t let out what was inside him, bringing down a small circle of
trees hadn’t made him feel any better, all the emotions were still there
but while he was destroying trees he at least wasn’t thinking about how
the feelings couldn’t be let out.

After Harry had run out of available magic he’d started tearing off
branches with his bare hands and snapping them. His hands were bleeding,
though nothing that Madam Pomfrey couldn’t fix in the morning. Only Dark
magic left permanent scars on wizards.

There came a sound of something moving in the woods, like the hoof-beats
of a horse, and Harry whirled, his wand rising once more; some part of
his magic had returned while he was working with his hands. It occurred
to him for the first time that he was out in the Forbidden Forest alone,
and making noise.

What emerged into the moonlight was not the unicorn Harry had expected,
but a creature with a lower body like that of a horse, gleaming
white-brown beneath the moonlight, and the bare upper chest of a male
human with long white hair. The moonlight caught the centaur’s face, and
Harry saw that the eyes were almost as blue as Dumbledore’s, halfway to
sapphire.

In one hand the centaur held a long wooden spear, with an overlarge
metal blade whose edge did not gleam beneath the moonlight; a gleaming
edge, Harry had once read, was the sign of a dull blade.

“So,” the centaur said. His voice was low, powerful and male. “Here you
are, surrounded by destruction. I can smell the unicorn’s blood in the
air, the blood of something innocent, slain to save oneself.”

A jolt of sudden fear brought Harry into the now, and he said quickly,
“It’s not what it looks like.”

“I know. The stars themselves proclaim your innocence, ironically
enough.” The centaur took a step toward Harry within the small clearing,
still holding his spear upright. “A strange word, innocence. It means
lack of knowledge, like the innocence of a child, and also means lack of
guilt. Only those entirely ignorant can lack all responsibility for the
consequences of their actions. He knows not what he does, and therefore
can be without harmful intent; so says that word.” The deep voice did
not echo in the woods.

Harry’s eyes flickered to the spear-tip, and he realized that he should
have grabbed his Time-Turner the moment he saw the centaur. Now, if
Harry tried to reach beneath his robes, the spear could strike him
before then, if the centaur was fast enough. “I read once,” Harry said,
his voice a bit unsteady as he tried to match deep-sounding words to
deep-sounding words, “that it’s wrong to think of little children as
innocent, because not knowing isn’t the same as not choosing. That
children do little harms to each other with school-yard fights, because
they don’t have the power to do great harm. And some adults do great
harm. But the adults who don’t, aren’t they more innocent than children,
not less?”

“The wisdom of wizards,” the centaur said.

“Muggle wisdom, actually.”

“Of the magicless I know little. Mars has been dim of late, but it grows
brighter.” The centaur took another step forwards, bringing him almost
within striking distance of Harry.

Harry didn’t dare look up to the sky. “That means Mars is coming closer
to the Earth, as both planets go around the Sun. Mars is reflecting the
same amount of sunlight as always, it’s just getting nearer to us. What
do you mean, the stars proclaim my innocence?”

“The night sky speaks to centaurs. It is how we know what we know. Or do
they not even tell wizards that much, these days?” A look of contempt
crossed the centaur’s face.

“I… tried to look up centaurs, when I was checking out Divination. Most
of the authors just ridiculed centaur Divination without explaining why,
wizards don’t understand argumentative norms, to them ridiculing an idea
or a person feels like casting that idea down just as much as bringing
evidence against it… I thought the part about centaurs using astrology
was just more ridicule…”

“Why?” the centaur intoned. His head cocked curiously.

“Because the course of the planets is predictable for thousands of years
in advance. If I talked to the right Muggles, I could show you a diagram
of exactly what the planets will look like from this spot ten years
later. Would you be able to make predictions from that?”

The centaur shook his head. “From a diagram? No. The light of the
planets, the comets, the subtle shifts in the stars themselves, those I
would not see.”

“Cometary orbits are also set thousands of years in advance so they
shouldn’t correlate much to current events. And the light of the stars
takes years to travel from the stars to Earth, and the stars don’t move
much at all, not visibly. So the obvious hypothesis is that centaurs
have a native magical talent for Divination which you just, well,
project onto the night sky.”

“Perhaps,” the centaur said thoughtfully. His head lowered. “The others
would strike you for saying such a thing, but I have ever sought to know
what I do not know. Why the night sky can foretell the future—that I
surely do not know. It is hard enough to grasp the skill itself. All I
can say, son of Lily, is that even if what you are saying is true, it
does not seem useful.”

Harry allowed himself to relax a little; being addressed as ‘son of
Lily’ implied that the centaur thought of him as more than a random
intruder in the forest. Besides, attacking a Hogwarts student would
probably bring some kind of huge reprisal upon the non-wizard centaur
tribe in the forests, and the centaur probably knew that… “What Muggles
have learned is that there is a power in the truth, in all the pieces of
the truth which interact with each other, which you can only find by
discovering as many truths as possible. To do that you can’t defend
false beliefs in any way, not even by saying the false belief is useful.
It might not seem to matter whether your predictions are really based on
the stars or if it’s an innate talent being projected. But if you wanted
to really understand Divination, or for that matter the stars, the real
truth about centaur predictions would be a fact that matters to other
truths.”

Slowly the centaur nodded. “So the wandless have become wiser than the
wizards. What a joke! Tell me, son of Lily, do the Muggles in their
wisdom say that soon the skies will be empty?”

“Empty?” Harry said. “Er… no?”

“The other centaurs in this forest have stayed from your presence, for
we are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens’ course. Because,
in becoming entangled in your fate, we might become less innocent in
what is to come. I alone have dared approach you.”

“I… don’t understand.”

“No. You are innocent, as the stars say. And to slay something innocent
to save oneself, that is a terrible deed. One would live only a cursed
life, a half-life, from that day. For any centaur would surely be cast
out, if he slew a foal.”

The spear made a lightning motion, too fast for Harry’s eyes to follow,
and smashed his wand out of his hand.

Another powerful blow smashed into Harry’s solar plexus, and he went
gasping and retching to the forest floor.

Harry’s hand reached up toward his robes, for his Time-Turner, and the
spear-butt knocked his hand away, almost hard enough to break fingers,
he reached with his other hand and that was knocked away too—

“I am sorry, Harry Potter,” the centaur said, and then looked up with
widened eyes. The spear spun about and came up, intercepting a red spell
bolt. Then the centaur dropped the spear and leaped away desperately, a
green flash of light went past him and another green flash of light
followed in its wake, then a third green flash hit the centaur
straight-on.

The centaur fell and did not move again.

It took a long time for Harry to catch his breath, to stagger to his
feet, to pick up his wand, to croak, “What?”

By that time the sense of doom, of power almost tangible in the air, had
approached once more.

“P-Professor Quirrell? What are you doing here?”

“Well,” the man in the black cloak said thoughtfully, “you needed to fly
into a rage and have a loud tantrum in the Forbidden Forest in the
middle of the night, and I needed to go just outside your ability to
detect me and keep watch. One does not leave a student alone in the
Forbidden Forest. That should be obvious in retrospect.”

Harry stared at the fallen centaur.

The horse-form wasn’t breathing.

“You—you killed him, that was Avada Kedavra—”

“I do not always understand how other people imagine morality to work,
Mr Potter. But even I know that on conventional morality, it is
acceptable to kill non-human creatures which are about to slay a wizard
child. Perhaps you do not care about the non-human part, but he was
about to kill you. He was hardly innocent—”

The Defence Professor stopped, looking at Harry, who had raised one
trembling hand to his mouth.

“Well,” the Defence Professor said then, “I have made my point, and you
may think on it. Centaur spears can block many spells, but no-one tries
to block if they see that the spell is a certain shade of green. For
this purpose it is useful to know some green stunning hexes. Really,
Mr Potter, you should understand by now how I operate.”

The Defence Professor came nearer the centaur’s body, and Harry took an
involuntary step back, then another, at the terrible rising sense of
STOP, DON’T—

The Defence Professor knelt and pressed his wand to the centaur’s head.

The wand stayed there for a time.

And the centaur rose, eyes blank, breathing once more.

“Remember nothing of this time,” the Defence Professor commanded.
“Wander away and forget everything about this night.”

The centaur walked away, the four horse-legs moving in strange
synchrony.

“Happy now?” the Defence Professor said, sounding rather sardonic about
it.

Harry’s brain still felt broken. “He was trying to kill me.”

“Oh, for Merlin’s sake—yes, he was trying to kill you. Get used to it.
Only boring people never have that experience.”

Harry’s voice emerged, hoarse. “Why—why did he want to—”

“Any number of reasons. I would be lying if I said I’d never considered
killing you myself.”

Harry stared at where the centaur had wandered into the trees.

His brain still felt half-broken, like an engine misfiring, but Harry
did not see how this could possibly be a good sign.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The news of Draco Malfoy nearly being eaten by a horror had been
sufficient to summon back Dumbledore from wherever he’d gone, to wake
Lord Malfoy and the Lady Greengrass’s handsome husband, to bring forth
Amelia Bones. The supposed presence of the horror had provoked
skepticism even from Dumbledore, and the possibility of False Memory
Charms had been raised. Harry had said (after some internal debate about
the consequences of people believing a demon was on the loose) that he
didn’t actually remember making the same effort he’d put forth to
frighten the Dementor, the dark thing had just left; which was what you
would expect someone to create as a False Memory, if they hadn’t
actually known how Harry had done it. The names of Bellatrix Black,
Severus Snape, and Quirinus Quirrell had been mentioned in connection
with wizards strong enough to subdue everyone present and cast False
Memory Charms, and Harry had known that Lucius was thinking of
Dumbledore. There had been Aurors testifying, and discussions going in
circles, and glares of accusation, and cutting remarks at 2 a.m. in the
morning. There had been motions, and votes, and consequences.

“Do you believe,” Headmaster Dumbledore said quietly to Harry, when all
of it was done, and the two of them alone, “that the Hogwarts you have
wrought is an improvement?”

Harry sat with his elbows on his knees, his face resting on his palms,
in the conference room from which all the others had now departed.
Professor McGonagall, who did not use a Time-Turner as routinely as the
two of them, had departed swiftly for her bed.

“Yes,” Harry answered after too long a hesitation. “From my perspective,
Headmaster, things in Hogwarts are finally, finally normal. This is how
things should be, when four children get sent into the Forbidden Forest
at night. There should be a huge fuss, constables showing up, and the
responsible party getting sacked.”

“You believe it is good,” Dumbledore said quietly, “that the man who you
call responsible was, as you put it, sacked.”

“Yes, in fact, I do.”

“Argus Filch has served this institution for decades.”

“And when given Veritaserum,” Harry said tiredly, “Argus Filch revealed
that he had sent an eleven-year-old boy into the Forbidden Forest,
hoping something awful would happen to him, because he thought the boy’s
father had been responsible for the death of his cat. The three other
students in Draco’s company don’t seem to have fazed him. I would have
argued for jail time, but your concept of jail in this country is
Azkaban. I’ll also note that Filch was remarkably unpleasant to the
children in Hogwarts and I expect the school’s hedonic index to be
improved by his departure, not that it matters to you, I suppose.”

The Headmaster’s eyes were impenetrable behind the half-moon glasses.
“Argus Filch is a Squib. His work at Hogwarts is all he has. Had,
rather.”

“The purpose of a school is not to provide work for its employees. I
know you probably spent more time around Filch than around any
individual student, but that shouldn’t make Filch’s inner experiences
loom larger in your thoughts. Students have inner lives too.”

“You don’t care at all, do you Harry?” Dumbledore’s voice was quiet.
“About those you hurt.”

“I care about the innocent,” Harry said. “Like Mr Hagrid, who you’ll
note I argued should not be considered malicious, just oblivious. I was
fine with Mr Hagrid working here so long as he didn’t take anyone into
the Forbidden Forest again.”

“I had thought that with Rubeus vindicated, he might teach Care of
Magical Creatures after Silvanus departs the position. But much of that
teaching is done in the Forbidden Forest. So that too shall not be, in
the wake of your passage.”

Harry said slowly, “But—you told us that Mr Hagrid has a blind spot when
it comes to magical creatures threatening wizards. That Mr Hagrid had a
cognitive deficit and couldn’t really imagine Draco and Tracey getting
hurt, which was why Mr Hagrid didn’t see anything wrong with leaving
them alone in the Forbidden Forest at night. Was that not true?”

“It is true.”

“Then wouldn’t Mr Hagrid be the worst possible teacher for Magical
Creatures?”

The old wizard gazed down at Harry through the half-moon glasses. His
voice was thick when he spoke. “Mr Malfoy himself saw nothing awry. It
was not so implausible a trick which Argus played, Harry Potter. And
Rubeus might have grown into his position. It would have been—all Rubeus
wished, his one greatest desire—”

“Your mistake,” Harry said, looking down at his knees, feeling at least
ten percent as exhausted as he’d ever been, “is a cognitive bias we
would call, in the trade, scope insensitivity. Failure to multiply.
You’re thinking about how happy Mr Hagrid would be when he heard the
news. Consider the next ten years and a thousand students taking Magical
Creatures and ten percent of them being scalded by Ashwinders. No one
student would be hurt as much as Mr Hagrid would be happy, but there’d
be a hundred students being hurt and only one happy teacher.”

“Perhaps,” the old wizard said. “And your own error, Harry, is that you
do not feel the pain of those you hurt, once you have done your
multiplication.”

“Maybe.” Harry went on staring at his knees. “Or maybe it’s worse than
that. Headmaster, what does it mean if a centaur doesn’t like me?” What
does it mean when a member of a race of magical creatures known for
Divination gives you a lecture on people who are ignorant of
consequences, apologizes, and then tries to stab you with a spear?

“A centaur?” the Headmaster said. “When did you—ah, the Time-Turner. You
are the reason why I could not travel back to before the event, on pain
of paradox.”

“Am I? I guess I am.” Harry shook his head distantly. “Sorry.”

“With very few exceptions,” Dumbledore said, “centaurs do not like
wizards, at all.”

“This was a bit more specific than that.”

“What did the centaur say to you?”

Harry didn’t reply.

“Ah.” The Headmaster hesitated. “Centaurs have been wrong many times,
and if there is anyone in the world who could confuse the stars
themselves, it is you.”

Harry looked up, and saw the blue eyes once more gentle behind the
half-circle glasses.

“Do not fret too much about it,” said Albus Dumbledore.

102. Caring

June 3rd, 1992

PROFESSOR Quirrell was very sick.

He’d seemed better for a while, after drinking his unicorn’s blood in
May, but the air of intense power which had surrounded him afterwards
hadn’t lasted even a day. By the Ides of May, Professor Quirrell’s hands
had been trembling again, though subtly. The Defence Professor’s medical
regimen had been interrupted too early, it seemed.

Six days ago Professor Quirrell had collapsed at dinner time.

Madam Pomfrey had tried to forbid Professor Quirrell from teaching
classes, and Professor Quirrell had shouted at her in front of everyone.
The Defence Professor had shouted that he was dying regardless, and
would use his remaining time as he chose.

So Madam Pomfrey, blinking hard, had forbidden the Defence Professor
from doing anything except teaching his classes. She’d asked for a
volunteer to help her take Professor Quirrell to a room in the Hogwarts
infirmary. More than a hundred students had risen to their feet, only
half wearing green.

The Defence Professor no longer sat at the Head Table during mealtimes.
He didn’t cast spells during lessons. The oldest students who had the
most Quirrell points helped him to teach, the seventh-years who had
already sat their Defence N.E.W.T.s in May. They took turns floating him
from his room in the infirmary to his classes, and brought him food at
mealtimes. Professor Quirrell proctored his Battle Magic classes from a
chair, sitting.

Watching Hermione die had hurt more than this, but that had ended much
more quickly.

This is the true Enemy.

Harry had already thought that, after Hermione had died. Being forced to
watch Professor Quirrell die, day by day, week by week, had not done
much to change his mind.

This is the true Enemy I have to face, Harry thought in Wednesday’s
Defence class, watching Professor Quirrell leaning far to one side of
his chair before that day’s seventh-year assistant caught him.
Everything else is just shadows and distraction.

Harry had been turning over Trelawney’s prophecy in his mind, wondering
if maybe the true Dark Lord had nothing to do with Lord Voldemort at
all. Born to those who have thrice defied him seemed to strongly invoke
the Peverell brothers and the three Deathly Hallows—though Harry didn’t
exactly see how Death could have marked him as an equal, which seemed to
imply some sort of deliberate action on Death’s part.

This alone is the true Enemy, Harry thought. After this will come
Professor McGonagall, Mum and Dad, even Neville in his time, unless the
wound in the world can be healed before then.

There was nothing Harry could do. Madam Pomfrey was already doing for
Professor Quirrell what magic could do, and magic seemed strictly
superior to Muggle techniques when it came to healing.

There was nothing Harry could do.

Nothing he could do.

Nothing.

Nothing at all.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry raised his hand, and knocked upon the door, in case the person
there could no longer detect him.

“What is it?” came a strained voice from the infirmary room.

“It’s me.”

There was a long pause. “Come in,” said that voice.

Harry slipped inside and closed the door behind him, and cast the
Quieting Charm. He stood as far away from Professor Quirrell as he
could, just in case his own magic was making the Professor feel
uncomfortable.

Though the sense of doom was fading, fading with each passing day.

Professor Quirrell was lying back in his infirmary bed, only his head
propped up by a pillow. A coverlet of cottony material, red with black
stitching, covered him to his chest. A book hovered before his eyes,
outlined in a pale glow which also surrounded a black cube lying by the
bed. Not the Defence Professor’s own magic, then, but a device of some
kind.

The book was Thinking Physics by Epstein, the same book Harry had lent
to Draco a few months back. Harry had stopped fretting about its
possible misuse several weeks earlier.

“This—” Professor Quirrell said, and coughed; it didn’t sound quite
right. “This is a fascinating book… if I’d ever realized…” A laugh,
mixed with another cough. “Why did I assume the Muggle arts… must not be
mine? That they would be… of no use to me? Why did I never bother
trying… to test it experimentally… as you would say? In case… my
assumption… was wrong? It seems sheerly foolish of me… in retrospect…”

Harry was having more trouble speaking than Professor Quirrell was.
Wordlessly, Harry reached into his pocket, and laid a kerchief on the
floor; which he unfolded to reveal a small white pebble, smooth and
round.

“What’s that?” said the Defence Professor.

“It’s a, it’s a, Transfigured, unicorn.”

Harry had checked the books, had learned that since he was too young to
have sexual thoughts he would be able to approach a unicorn without
fear. The same books had said nothing about unicorns being smart. Harry
had already noticed that every intelligent magical species was at least
partially humanoid, from merfolk to centaurs to giants, from elves to
goblins to Veela. All had essentially human-like emotions, many were
known to interbreed with humans. Harry had already reasoned out that
magic didn’t create new intelligence but just changed the shape of
genetically human beings. Unicorns were equine, were not even partially
humanoid, didn’t talk, used no tools, they were almost certainly just
magical horses. If it was right to eat a cow to feed yourself for a day,
then it had to be right to drink a unicorn’s blood in order to stave off
death for weeks. You couldn’t have it both ways.

So Harry had gone into the Forbidden Forest wearing his Cloak. He had
searched the Grove of Unicorns until he saw her, a proud creature with a
pure white coat and violet hair, with three blue blotches on her flank.
Harry had gone over, and the sapphire eyes had stared at him
inquisitively. Harry had tapped out the sequence 1–2–3 on the ground
several times with his shoes. The unicorn had shown no sign of
responding in kind. Harry had reached over, taken her hoof in his hand,
and tapped the same sequence with the unicorn’s hoof. The unicorn had
only looked at him curiously.

And something about feeding the unicorn the sleeping-potion-laced sugar
cubes had still felt like murder.

That magic gives their existence a weight of meaning which no mere
animal could possess… to slay something innocent to save oneself, that
is a very grave sin. Those two phrases, from Professor McGonagall, from
the centaur, had both run through Harry’s mind, over and over as the
white unicorn had yawned, laid down on the ground, and closed its eyes
for what would be the last time. The Transfiguration had lasted an hour,
and Harry’s eyes had watered repeatedly as he worked. The unicorn’s
death might not have come then, but it would come soon enough, and it
was foreign to Harry’s nature to try to refuse responsibility of any
kind. Harry would just have to hope that, if you didn’t kill the unicorn
to save yourself, if you did it to help a friend, it would be acceptable
in the end.

Professor Quirrell’s eyebrows had climbed toward his hairline. His voice
was less soft, had something of his normal sharpness, as he said, “I
forbid you from doing that again.”

“I wondered if you’d say that,” Harry said. He swallowed again. “But
this unicorn is already, already doomed, so you might as well take it,
Professor…”

“Why have you done this?”

If the Defence Professor really didn’t understand that, he was slower on
the uptake than anyone Harry had ever met. “I kept thinking there was
nothing I could do,” Harry said. “I got tired of thinking it.”

Professor Quirrell closed his eyes. His head leaned back into the
pillow. “You were lucky,” the Defence Professor said in a soft voice,
“that a unicorn in Transfigured form… did not set off the Hogwarts
wards, as a strange creature… I shall have to… take this outside the
grounds, to make use of it… but that can be managed. I shall tell them
that I wish to look upon the lake… I will ask you to sustain the
Transfiguration before you go, and it should last long enough, after
that… and with my last strength, dispel whatever death-alarms were
placed to watch over the herd… which, the unicorn being not yet dead,
but only Transfigured, will not yet have triggered… you were very lucky,
Mr Potter.”

Harry nodded. He started to speak, then stopped again. Words seemed to
stick in his throat once more.

You already calculated the expected utilities, if it works, if it goes
wrong. You assigned probabilities, you multiplied, and then you threw
out the answer and went with your new gut feeling, which was the same.
So say it.

“Do you know,” Harry said unsteadily, “of any way at all, by which your
life might be saved?”

The Defence Professor’s eyes opened. “Why… do you ask me that, boy?”

“There’s… a spell I heard of, a ritual—”

“Be silent,” said the Defence Professor.

An instant later a snake lay in the bed.

Even the snake’s eyes were dull.

It did not rise.

“Sspeak on,” hissed that snake, its flickering tongue its only motion.

“There is…there iss a ritual, I heard of from the sschoolmasster, by
which he thinkss the Dark Lord might have lived on. It iss called—”and
Harry stopped, as he realized that he did know how to say the word in
Parseltongue. “Horcruxs. It requiress a death, I have heard. But if you
are dying in any casse, you might try to adapt the ritual, even at great
rissk for the new sspell, sso that it can be done with a different
ssacrifice. It would change the whole world, if you ssucceed—though I
don’t know anything about the sspell—the sschoolmasster thought it tore
off a piece of ssoul, though I don’t ssee how that could be true—”

The snake was hissing laughter, strange sharp laughter, almost
hysterical. “You tell me of that sspell? Me? You musst learn more
caution in the future, boy. But it matterss not. I learned of the
horcruxs sspell ssince long ago. It iss meaninglesss.”

“Meaningless?” Harry said aloud in surprise.

“Would be pointlesss sspell from beginning, if ssoulss exsissted. Tear
piece of ssoul? That iss lie. Missdirection to hide true ssecret. Only
one who doess not believe in common liess will reasson further, ssee
beneath obsscuration, realisse how to casst sspell. Required murder iss
not ssacrificial ritual at all. Ssudden death ssometimess makess ghosst,
if magic bursstss and imprintss on nearby thing. Horcruxs sspell
channelss death-bursst through casster, createss your own ghosst
insstead of victim’ss, imprintss ghosst in sspecial device. Ssecond
victim pickss up horcruxs device, device imprintss your memoriess into
them. But only memoriess from time horcruxs device wass made. You ssee
flaw?”

The burning sensation was back in Harry’s throat. “No continuity of—”
there wasn’t a snake word for consciousness “—sself, you would go on
thinking after making the horcruxs, then sself with new memoriess diess
and iss not resstored—”

“Yess, you do ssee. Alsso Merlin’ss Interdict preventss powerful
sspellss from passsing through ssuch a device, ssince it iss not truly
alive. Dark Wizzardss who think to return thuss are weaker, eassily
disspatched. None have perssissted long by ssuch meanss. Perssonalitiess
change, mixs with victim’ss. Death iss not truly gainssaid. Real sself
iss losst, ass you ssay. Not to my pressent tasste. Admit I conssidered
it, long ago.”

A man was lying in the infirmary bed once more. The Defence Professor
breathed, then made a wretched coughing sound.

“Can you give me a full recipe for the spell?” Harry said, after a
moment’s deliberation. “There might be some way to improve on the flaws,
with enough research. Some way to do it ethically and have it work.”
Like doing the transfer into a clone body with a blank brain, instead of
an innocent victim, which might also improve the fidelity of the
personality transfer… though that still left the other problems.

Professor Quirrell made a short sound, under his breath, that might have
been laughter. “You know, boy,” Professor Quirrell whispered, “I had
thought… to teach you everything… the seeds of all the secrets I knew…
from one living mind to another… so that later, when you found the right
books, you would be able to understand… I would have passed on my
knowledge to you, my heir… we would have begun as soon as you asked me…
but you never asked.”

Even the grief surrounding Harry like thick water gave way to that, to
the sheer magnitude of the missed opportunity. “I was supposed to—? I
didn’t know I was supposed to—!”

Another coughing chuckle. “Ah yes… the unknowing Muggle-born… in
heritage if not in blood… that is you. But I thought… better of it… that
you should not walk my path… it was not a good path, in the end.”

“It’s not too late, Professor!” Harry said. A part of Harry yelled that
he was being selfish, and then another part shouted that down; there
would be other people to help.

“Yes, it is too late… and you shall not… persuade me otherwise… I have…
thought better of it… as I said… I am too full… of secrets better left
unknown… look at me.”

Harry looked, almost despite himself.

He saw a still-unwrinkled face, looking old and pained, beneath a head
rapidly losing its hair, even the sides looking wispy now; Harry saw a
face he’d always thought was sharp, now revealed as thin, muscle and fat
fading away from the face, as from the arms beneath it, like the
skeletal form of Bellatrix Black he’d seen in Azkaban—

Harry’s head wrenched aside, unthinkingly.

“You see,” whispered the Professor. “I dislike to sound cliched…
Mr Potter… but the truth is… the Arts called Dark… really are not good
for a person… in the end.”

Professor Quirrell breathed in, breathed out. There was quiet for a time
in the infirmary, the two of them watched only by the elaborately
ornamented stone of the walls.

“Is there anything left… unsaid between us?” said Professor Quirrell. “I
am not dying today… mind you… not right now… but I do not know how long…
I shall be able to converse.”

“There’s,” Harry said, swallowed again. “There’s a lot of things, way
too many things, but… it might be the wrong thing to ask, but I don’t
want—this one question unanswered—snake?”

A snake lay on the bed.

“I learned how the Killing Cursse workss. Requiress true hate to casst,
not much hate, but musst want target dead, they ssay. In prisson with
life-eaterss, you casst Killing Cursse at guard—ssaid you did not want
him dead—wass that lie? Here, now, at thiss disstance—you may sspeak
truth—even if you fear it reflectss poorly on you—it sshould not matter
now, teacher. I wissh to know. Musst know. Will not abandon you, either
way.”

A man lay on the bed.

“Listen carefully,” Professor Quirrell whispered. “I will tell you a
conundrum… a riddle of a dangerous spell… when you know the answer to
that puzzle… you will also know… the answer to your question… are you
listening?”

Harry nodded.

“There is a limitation… to the Killing Curse. To cast it once… in a
fight… you must hate enough… to want the other dead. To cast Avada…
Kedavra twice… you must hate enough… to kill twice… to cut their throat
with your own hands… to watch them die… then do it again. Very few… can
hate enough… to kill someone… five times… they would… get bored.” The
Defence Professor breathed several times, before continuing. “But if you
look at history… you will find some Dark Wizards… who could cast the
Killing Curse… over and over. A nineteenth-century witch… who called
herself Dark Evangel… the Aurors called her A. K. McDowell. She could
cast the Killing Curse… a dozen times… in one fight. Ask yourself… as I
asked myself… what is the secret… that she knew? What is deadlier than
hate… and flows without limit?”

A second level to the Avada Kedavra spell, just like with the Patronus
Charm…

“I don’t really care,” Harry answered.

The Defence Professor chuckled wetly. “Good. You are… learning. So you
see…” A pause of transformation. “I did not wissh guard dead, after all.
Casst Killing Cursse, but not with hate.” And then a man.

Harry swallowed hard. It was both better, and worse, than what Harry had
suspected; and characteristic enough of Professor Quirrell. A cracked
soul, for certain; but Professor Quirrell had never claimed to be whole.

“Any else… to say?” said the man in the bed.

“Are you absolutely sure,” Harry said, “that there is nothing you’ve
ever heard of that might save you, Professor? In all your lore? Finding
and uniting all three Deathly Hallows, an ancient artefact that Merlin
sealed behind a riddle nobody’s ever figured out? You’ve seen some of
what I can do. That I’m good at solving riddles. You know I can figure
things out, sometimes, that other wizards can’t. I—” Harry’s voice
broke. “I have a strong preference for your life, over your death,
Professor Quirrell.”

There was a long pause.

“One thing,” whispered Professor Quirrell. “One thing… that might do it…
or it might not… but to obtain it… is beyond your power, or mine…”

Oh, it was just the setup for a sub-quest, said Harry’s Inner Critic.

All the other parts screamed for that part to shut up. Life didn’t work
like that. Ancient artifacts could be found, but not in a month, not
when you couldn’t leave Hogwarts and were still in your first year.

Professor Quirrell took in a deep breath. Exhaled. “I’m sorry… that came
out… too dramatic. Do not… get your hopes up… Mr Potter. You asked… for
anything… no matter how unlikely. There is… a certain object… called…”

A snake lay on the bed.

“The Philossopher’ss Sstone,” hissed the snake.

If there’d been a mass-manufacturable means of safe immortality this
entire time and nobody had bothered, Harry was going to snap and kill
everyone.

“I read of it in a book,”Harry hissed. “Concluded it wass obviouss myth.
No reasson why ssame device would provide immortality and endlesss gold.
Not unlesss ssomeone wass jusst inventing happy sstoriess. Not to
mention, every ssane persson sshould have been ressearching wayss to
make more Sstoness, or kidnapping maker to produce. Thought of you
sspecifically, teacher.”

A hissing of cold laughter. “Reassoning iss wisse, but not wisse enough.
Like with horcruxs sspell, abssurdity hidess true ssecret. True Sstone
iss not what that legend ssayss. True power iss not what sstoriess
claim. Sstone’ss ssuppossed maker wass not one who made it. One who
holdss it now, wass not born to name now ussed. Yet Sstone iss powerful
healing device in truth. Have you heard it sspoken of?”

“Jusst in the book.”

“One who holdss Sstone iss repossitory of much lore. Taught
sschoolmasster many ssecretss. Sschoolmasster hass ssaid nothing of
Sstone’ss holder, nothing of Sstone? No hintss?”

“Not that I can eassily recall,” Harry replied honestly.

“Ah,” hissed the snake. “Ah, well.”

“Could assk sschoolmasster—”

“No! Do not assk him, boy. He would not take quesstion well.”

“But if the Sstone only healss—”

“Sschoolmasster doess not believe that, would not believe that. Too many
have ssought Sstone, or ssought holder’ss lore. Do not assk. Musst not
assk. Do not try to obtain Sstone yoursself. I forbid.”

A man lay on the bed once more. “I am at… my limit…” said Professor
Quirrell. “I must regain… my strength… before I go… to the forest… with
your gift. Leave now… but sustain the Transfiguration… before you go.”

Harry reached out, touched the white pebble lying within the kerchief,
renewing the Transfiguration on it. “It should last for one hour and
fifty-three minutes after this,” Harry said.

“Your studies… do well.”

It was far longer than Harry’s Transfigurations had lasted at the start
of the school year. Second-year spells came to him easily now, without
strain; which wasn’t surprising, since he would be twelve in less than
two months. Harry could even have cast a Memory Charm, if it had been
good for someone to forget every memory involving their left arm. He was
climbing the power ladder, slowly, from very far down.

The thought came with a potential for sadness, a thought of one door
opening as another closed; which Harry also rejected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The door to the infirmary closed behind Harry, as the Boy-Who-Lived
walked swiftly and with purpose, shrugging on his Invisibility Cloak as
he moved. Soon, presumably, Professor Quirrell would call for
assistance; and an older student trio would guide the Defence Professor
into some quiet place, maybe the forest, with an excuse of viewing the
lake or some such. Somewhere the Defence Professor could eat a unicorn
undetected, after Harry’s Transfiguration wore off.

And then Professor Quirrell would be healthier, for a time. His power
would return to him as strong as he’d ever been, for a much shorter
time.

It wouldn’t last.

Harry’s fists clenched as he strode, the tension radiating up his arm
muscles. If the Defence Professor’s treatment regimen hadn’t been
interrupted, by Harry and the Aurors that he had brought to Hogwarts…

It was stupid to blame himself, Harry knew it was stupid and somehow his
brain was doing it anyway. Like his brain was searching, carefully
finding and selecting some way for this to be his fault, no matter how
far it had to stretch.

As if having things be his fault were the only way that his brain knew
how to grieve.

A trio of seventh-year Slytherins passed Harry’s invisible form in the
hallway, heading for the healer’s offices where the Professor waited,
looking deeply serious and concerned. Was that how other people grieved?

Or did they, on some level, not really care, as Professor Quirrell
thought?

There is a second level to the Killing Curse.

Harry’s brain had solved the riddle instantly, in the moment of first
hearing it; as though the knowledge had always been inside him, waiting
to make itself known.

Harry had read once, somewhere, that the opposite of happiness wasn’t
sadness, but boredom; and the author had gone on to say that to find
happiness in life you asked yourself not what would make you happy, but
what would excite you. And by the same reasoning, hatred wasn’t the true
opposite of love. Even hatred was a kind of respect that you could give
to someone’s existence. If you cared about someone enough to prefer
their dying to their living, it meant you were thinking about them.

It had come up much earlier, before the Trial, in conversation with
Hermione; when she’d said something about magical Britain being
Prejudiced, with considerable and recent justification. And Harry had
thought—but not said—that at least she’d been let into Hogwarts to be
spat upon.

Not like certain people living in certain countries, who were, it was
said, as human as anyone else; who were said to be sapient beings, worth
more than any mere unicorn. But who nonetheless wouldn’t be allowed to
live in Muggle Britain. On that score, at least, no Muggle had the right
to look a wizard in the eye. Magical Britain might discriminate against
Muggle-borns, but at least it allowed them inside so they could be spat
upon in person.

What is deadlier than hate, and flows without limit?

“Indifference,” Harry whispered aloud, the secret of a spell he would
never be able to cast; and kept striding toward the library to read
anything he could find, anything at all, about the Philosopher’s Stone.

103. Tests

June 4th, 1992

DAPHNE Greengrass was in the Slytherin common room, writing a letter to
her Lady Mother (who was surprisingly intransigent about power-sharing,
despite not even being in Hogwarts to exercise control) when she saw
Draco Malfoy stagger in through the portrait door carrying what must
have been a dozen books, Vincent and Gregory behind him each carrying a
dozen more. The Auror who’d accompanied Malfoy stuck his head in
briefly, then withdrew to who-knew-where.

Draco looked around, then seemed to be struck by a bright idea as he
staggered toward her, Vincent and Gregory following after.

“Can you help me read these?” said Draco, sounding slightly out of
breath as he approached.

“What.” Lessons were over, only the exams were left now, and since when
did Malfoys ask Greengrasses for help with their homework?

“These,” Draco Malfoy said importantly, “are all the library books
Miss Granger borrowed between April 1st and April 16th. I thought I’d go
through them in case there are any Clues there, only then I thought,
maybe you should help because you knew Miss Granger better.”

Daphne stared at the books. “The General read all that in two weeks?” A
twinge of pain went through her heart, but she suppressed it.

“Well, I don’t know if Miss Granger finished them all,” Draco said. He
held up a cautioning finger. “In fact, we don’t know if she read any of
them, or if she really borrowed them, I mean, all we’ve observed is that
the library ledger says she checked them out—”

Daphne suppressed a groan. Malfoy had been talking like this for weeks.
There were some people who clearly were not meant to be involved with
mysterious murders because it did strange things to their minds.
“Mr Malfoy, I couldn’t read all these if I spent my whole summer doing
nothing else.”

“Then just skim through them, please?” Draco said. “Especially if
there’s, you know, mysterious words scribbled in her handwriting, or a
bookmark left inside, or—”

“I’ve seen those plays too, Mr Malfoy.” Daphne rolled her eyes. “Don’t
we have Aurors now for—”

“We’re doomed!” shrieked Millicent Bulstrode, as she burst up from the
lower chambers into the Slytherin common room.

People paused to look at her.

“It’s Professor Quirrell!”

A sudden air of attentiveness, as of long-standing disputes about to be
settled. “Well, finally,” someone said, as Millicent tried to catch her
breath. “He’s only got, what, ten days left to go bad?”

“Eleven days,” said the seventh-year who was running the betting pool.

“He’s suddenly got a little better and he’s going to summon the
first-years for our Defence exam! By surprise! In fifty minutes!”

“A Defence exam?” Pansy said blankly. “But Professor Quirrell doesn’t
give exams.”

“The Ministry Defence exam!” shrieked Millicent.

“But Professor Quirrell doesn’t teach anything from the Ministry
curriculum,” objected Pansy.

Daphne was already fleeing to her room, racing for the first-year
Defence textbook that she hadn’t touched since September and screaming
curses inside her mind.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One desk behind her, someone was crying, their soft sobs providing a
background chant of despair for the classroom. Daphne looked back,
expecting to see a Hufflepuff and hoping it wasn’t Hannah, and was
surprised at first (though not on further reflection) to see it was a
Ravenclaw.

Before them were set the exam parchments, turned over, waiting for the
bell.

Fifty minutes hadn’t been nearly enough preparation time, but it was
something, and Daphne was now feeling ashamed that she hadn’t thought to
send messengers to warn the Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Gryffindor
Houses. They’d started giving House Points again just three days ago, at
the beginning of June, but the Auxiliary Protective Special Committee
still ought to promote House unity.

Another Ravenclaw, sitting four desks to her left, also started to cry.
That was Katherine Tung of Dragon Army, if she recalled correctly, whom
she’d once seen take on three Sunshine Soldiers simultaneously without a
flinch.

Daphne had calmed down after the first couple of minutes of frantic
reading. It was just a test, not a murder or anything; and if almost all
the first-year students turned in mostly blank parchments then it stood
to reason that nobody would be shamed. But Daphne could understand, if
not exactly sympathize, that Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs might not see it
that way.

“He’s evil,” another Ravenclaw witch said in a shaking voice. “One
hundred percent pure Dark Wizard to the bone. The Dark Lord Grindelwald
wouldn’t do this, not to children, he’s worse than You-Know-Who.”

Daphne looked reflexively at where Professor Quirrell was sitting,
slumped to one side but his eyes alert; and she thought she saw the
Defence Professor smile for one tiny instant. No, that had to be her
imagination, there was no way the Defence Professor could have heard
that.

The bell rang.

Daphne flipped the parchment over.

The top was stamped with the seals for the Ministry, the Hogwarts Board
of Governors, and the Department of Magical Education, and runes to
detect cheating. Below that was a line for her to write her name, and a
list of exam rules with a picture of Lindsay Gagnon, the Director of the
Department of Magical Education, shaking an admonishing finger at
everyone.

Halfway down the page was the first exam question.

It was, Why is it important for children to stay away from strange
creatures?

There was a stunned pause.

One student began laughing, she thought it was from the Gryffindor
section of the class. Professor Quirrell made no motion to censor it,
and the laughter spread.

Nobody spoke aloud, but the students looked around at each other,
exchanging glances as the laughter died down, and then as if by some
unspoken agreement they all looked at Professor Quirrell, who was
smiling down at them benevolently.

Daphne bent over her exam, wearing a defiant evil smile that would have
done proud to either Godric Gryffindor or Grindelwald; and she wrote
down, Because my Stunning Hex, my Most Ancient Blade, and my Patronus
Charm won’t work against everything.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry Potter turned over the last page of his Defence exam.

Even Harry had needed to quash a small bit of nervousness, some tiny
remnant of his childhood, upon reading the first real question (‘How can
you make a Shrieking Eel be silent?’). Professor Quirrell’s lessons had
spent roughly zero time on the surprising yet useless trivia that some
idiot had imagined a ‘Defence class’ should look like. In principle,
Harry could have used his Time-Turner to read through the first-year
Defence book after being notified of the surprise exam; but that might
have unfairly skewed the grading curve for others. After staring at the
question for a couple of seconds, Harry had written down ‘Quieting
Charm’, and included the casting directions in case the Ministry marker
didn’t believe that Harry knew it.

Once Harry had decided to just answer all the questions correctly, the
exam had gone by very quickly. The most realistic answer to more than
half the questions was ‘Stunning Hex’, and many of the other questions
had optimal solutions along the lines of ‘Turn around and walk in the
opposite direction’ or ‘Throw away the cheese and buy a new pair of
shoes.’

The last question on the test was “What would you do if you suspected
there might be a Bogeysnake underneath your bed?” The Ministry-approved
answer, Harry could in fact recall from his read-through of the textbook
at the start of the year, was Tell your parents. The problem with this
had occurred to Harry right away, which was why Harry had remembered it.

After some pondering, Harry wrote down:

Dear Ministry marker,

I’m afraid the real answer to that is a secret, but rest assured that a
Bogeysnake would present no more trouble to me than a mountain troll, a
Dementor, or You-Know-Who. Please inform your superiors that I find your
standard answer prejudicial to Muggle-borns, and that I expect this
failing will be corrected at once without any need for my direct
intervention.

Sincerely,

the Boy-Who-Lived

Harry signed the last parchment with a broad flourish, turned it over
into his stack, put down his quill, and sat up.

Looking around, Harry saw that Professor Quirrell seemed to be looking
in his rough direction, though the Defence Professor’s head had nodded
to one side. The other students were still writing. Some of them were
silently crying, but they were still writing. Continuing to fight was
also a lesson Professor Quirrell had taught.

Interminably later, the official exam time was up. A seventh-year
student went from desk to desk, collecting the exams in Professor
Quirrell’s place.

The last exam parchment was collected, and Professor Quirrell sat up
straight.

“My young students,” he said softly. The seventh-year student had her
wand trained on the Defence Professor’s mouth, so that they all heard
his voice seeming to come from right beside them. “I know… that probably
seemed very fearsome to some of you… it is a different kind of fear from
facing the enemy’s wand… you must conquer it separately. So I… shall
tell you this now. It is the custom of Hogwarts… that grades are given
in the second week of June. But for my case… they can make an exception,
I think.” The Defence Professor smiled his familiar dry smile, tinged
now as though by a suppressed grimace. “I know you are worried… that you
were not prepared for this exam… that my lessons have not covered this
material… and I quite forgot to mention… that it was approaching… though
you should have known… it would come in time. But I have just now
magically checked… the answers you have given on that… terribly,
terribly important exam… though of course only the Ministry grade is
official… and assigned your grades for the year taking the results into
account… and magically written them down on these parchments,” Professor
Quirrell tapped a stack of parchments on the side of his desk, “which
will now be handed out… an incredible spell… is it not?”

A few students on the Ravenclaw side were looking indignant, but for the
most part the students just looked relieved, and some Slytherins were
chuckling. Harry would have laughed too, if not for the pain of watching
Professor Quirrell gasp out the words.

The seventh-year student standing beside Professor Quirrell pointed her
wand and spoke an incantation in magical pseudo-Latin. The parchments
rose up and started to drift through the air, separating in mid-flow to
drift toward each student.

Harry waited until his parchment had arrived on his desk, and then
unfolded it.

The parchment said EE+, which stood for Exceeds Expectations. It was the
second-highest grade letter, the highest being Outstanding.

In another world, a distant vanished world, a little boy named Harry
would have shouted with indignation about receiving only the
second-highest grade. This Harry sat quietly and thought. Professor
Quirrell was making some point, and it wasn’t as though the exact grade
letter mattered in any other way. Was Professor Quirrell saying that
Harry had done relatively well, but not lived up to his full potential?
Or was the grade meant to be read literally, that Harry had in fact
exceeded the Defence Professor’s expectations?

“All of you… pass,” Professor Quirrell said, as the students all looked
at their final grades, as sighs of relief rose from desks and Lavender
Brown raised her parchment in a clenched fist held high with triumph.
“Every student in first-year Battle Magic has passed… except for one.”

A number of students looked up in sudden terror.

Harry sat there silently. He had seen the point immediately, and even if
it was a wrong point, he knew Professor Quirrell would never, ever be
talked out of making it.

“All of you in this room… have received grades of at least Acceptable.
Neville Longbottom… who took this test in the Longbottom home… received
a grade of Outstanding. But the other student who is not here… has had a
Dreadful grade entered on her record… for failing the only important
test… that was given her this year. I would have marked her even lower…
but that would have been in poor taste.”

The room was very quiet, though a number of students were staring
angrily at the Professor.

“You may think that a grade of Dreadful… is not fair. That Miss Granger
was faced with a test… for which her lessons… had not prepared her. That
she was not told… that the exam was coming on that day.”

The Defence Professor drew in a shaking breath.

“Such is realism,” said Professor Quirrell. “The only important test…
may come at any time… be better prepared for it… than she was. As for
the rest of you… those who have received Exceeds Expectations or above…
have received my letters of recommendation… to certain organizations
beyond Britain’s shores… where your training might be completed. They
will contact you… when you are old enough… if you still appear worthy…
and if you have not failed an important test. And remember… from this
day… you must train yourselves… you cannot rely… on future Defence
professors. Your first year of Battle Magic is over… you are dismissed.”

Professor Quirrell sat back with his eyes closed, seeming to ignore the
excited babble that broke out around him.

In time most of the students had departed, and one remained, staying a
prescribed distance from the Defence Professor.

The Defence Professor opened his eyes.

Harry raised the parchment with its EE+, still silent.

The Defence Professor smiled, and it went all the way to those tired
eyes.

“It is the same grade… that I received in my own first year.”

“Th, th, th,” Harry couldn’t make the words thank you come out, they
were stuck in his suddenly closed throat, the Defence Professor tilting
his head and giving him an inquiring stare, so Harry just bowed jerkily
and then left the room.

Nine days yet remained.

104. The Truth, Part I:Riddles and Answers

June 13th, 1992

IT was the last week of school in Hogwarts, and Professor Quirrell was
still alive, barely. The Defence Professor himself would be in a
healer’s bed, this day, as he’d been for almost the last week.

Hogwarts tradition said that exams were given in the first week of June,
that results were released in the second week, and that in the third
week, there would be the Leave-Taking Feast on Sunday and the Hogwarts
Express transporting you to London on Monday.

Harry had wondered, a long time ago when he’d first read about that
schedule, just what exactly the students did during the rest of the
second week of June, since ‘waiting for exam results’ didn’t sound like
much; and the answer had surprised him when he’d found out.

But now the second week of June was over as well, and it was Saturday;
there was nothing left of the year but the Leave-Taking Feast on the
14th and the Hogwarts Express ride on the 15th.

And nothing had been answered.

Nothing had been resolved.

Hermione’s killer hadn’t been found.

Somehow Harry had been thinking that, surely, all the truth would come
out by the end of the school year; like that was the end of a mystery
novel and the mystery’s answer had been promised him. Certainly it had
to be known by the time the Defence Professor… died, it couldn’t be
allowed for Professor Quirrell to die without knowing the answer,
without everything being neatly resolved. Not exam grades, certainly not
death, it was only truth that finished a story…

But unless you bought Draco Malfoy’s latest theory that Professor Sprout
had been assigning and grading less homework around the time of Hermione
being framed for attempted murder, thereby proving that Professor Sprout
had been spending her time setting it up, the truth remained unfound.

And instead, as if the world had priorities that were more like other
people’s way of thinking, the year was going to end with a climactic
Quidditch match.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the air above the stadium, distant figures on broomsticks swooped and
pirouetted and spun around each other. The red-purplish truncated
tetrahedron that was the Quaffle was caught, tossed, blocked, and
occasionally thrown through floating hoops, accompanied by
stadium-rocking cries of triumph or dismay. Blue and green and yellow
and red-trimmed robes shouted with the enthusiasm that people felt so
easily when no action would be required from them personally.

It was the first Quidditch match Harry had attended at Hogwarts, and
he’d already decided that it would be the last.

“Davies has the Quaffle!” shouted the amplified voice of Lee Jordan.
“That’s another ten points for Ravenclaw in seven… six… five… holy
smokes, he’s done it already! Smack through the centre of the central
hoop! I’ve never seen such a winning streak—I’m calling it right now for
Davies becoming Captain next year after Bortan steps down—”

Lee’s voice cut out abruptly and Professor McGonagall’s own amplified
voice said, “That’s the Ravenclaw team’s own business, Mr Jordan.
Confine yourself to the match, please.”

“And the Slytherins take possession—Flint hands off the Quaffle to the
lovely—”

“Mr Jordan!”

“To the merely acceptable Sharon Vizcaino, whose hair trails behind her
like a comet as she blazes toward the Ravenclaw defence—now with two
Bludgers in close pursuit! Pucey’s on Sharon’s tail—what are you doing,
Inglebee?—and she swerves in mid-air to avoid—IS THAT THE SNITCH? GO,
CHO CHANG, GO, HIGGS IS ALREADY—WHAT ARE YOU TWO DOING?”

“Calm down, Mr Jordan!”

“HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO CALM DOWN? THAT WAS THE WORST MISSED PLAY I’VE
EVER SEEN! And the Snitch is gone—maybe gone for good, after being
missed that badly—Pucey’s heading off towards the goal posts, Inglebee’s
nowhere near him—”

In a distant era of history, maybe in another world entirely, Professor
Quirrell had undertaken that the House Cup would be awarded to either
Slytherin or Ravenclaw. Or possibly, somehow, both; for he had promised
that three wishes would be granted. So far it was looking good on two
out of three.

If you just went by the current score, Hufflepuff was leading the race
for the House Cup by something like five hundred points, thanks to
Hufflepuff’s students doing their homework and staying out of trouble.
It appeared that Professor Snape had been strategically taking quite a
lot of points from Hufflepuffs for, er, the last seven years or so.
Slytherin House, reigning champion for the last seven years, still had
to its advantage a certain generosity of its Head of House in handing
out points; and this was sufficient to put it neck-and-neck with
Ravenclaw House, home of the academic achievers. Gryffindor was far
behind in last place, as befit the House of nonconformists; Gryffindor
had Slytherin’s profile when it came to academics and mischief, only
without the advantage of Professor Snape. Even Fred and George had
barely broken even on the year.

Ravenclaw House and Slytherin House both needed a lot of points from
somewhere if either wanted to catch up with Hufflepuff in the next two
days.

And so far as anyone knew, Professor Quirrell hadn’t done a single thing
leading to the obvious result. It was happening all by itself, now that
one lone Professor in Hogwarts had taught a class with creative
problem-solving.

The final Quidditch match of the year was between Ravenclaw and
Slytherin. Earlier in the year, Gryffindor’s initial Quidditch lead had
vanished after their new Seeker, Emmett Shear, fell off a possibly
malfunctioning broomstick during his second game. This had also required
some hasty rescheduling of the remaining games.

This, the final game of the year, wouldn’t end until the Snitch was
caught.

Quidditch scores added directly onto the House points total.

And what did you know, today it seemed that both the Slytherin and
Ravenclaw Seekers just could… not… catch… the… Snitch.

“THE SNITCH WAS PRACTICALLY ON TOP OF YOU, YOU DIM-EYED DIMWIT!”

“Language, Mr Jordan, or I’ll remove you from this game! Though it was
terrible play, I admit.”

Harry had to admit that Lee Jordan and Professor McGonagall had a
wonderful comedic routine, with Jordan as the banana-man and Professor
McGonagall as the straight-woman; Harry now felt a little sorry to have
missed it at the earlier Quidditch matches. It was a side of Professor
McGonagall he hadn’t seen before.

A few seats down from where Harry sat in the Hufflepuff section of the
stands, there lurked the hulking form of Cedric Diggory. The Super
Hufflepuff had observed the most recent near-air-collision between Cho
Chang and Terence Higgs with the keen eye of a wizard who was a Seeker
and a Quidditch Captain in his own right.

“The Ravenclaw Seeker is new,” Cedric said. “But Higgs is in his seventh
year; I’ve played against him. He’s better than that.”

“You think it’s a strategy?” asked one of the Hufflepuffs sitting next
to Cedric.

“It would make sense if Slytherin needed some extra points to win the
Quidditch Cup,” Cedric said. “But Slytherin already has the title in the
bag. What are they thinking? They could’ve won right there!”

The game had started at six o’clock in the evening. A typical game would
have gone until seven or so, at which point it would have been time for
dinner. June in Scotland meant plenty of daylight; sunset wasn’t until
ten.

It was at eight pm and six minutes, according to Harry’s watch, when
Slytherin had just scored another 10 points bringing the score to
170–140, when Cedric Diggory leapt out of his seat and shouted “Those
bastards!”

“Yeah!” cried a young boy beside him, leaping to his own feet. “Who do
they think they are, scoring points?”

“Not that!” cried Cedric Diggory. “They’re—they’re trying to steal the
Cup from us!”

“But we’re not in the running any more for—”

“Not the Quidditch Cup! The House Cup!”

The word spread, with cries of outrage.

That was Harry’s cue.

Harry politely asked a Hufflepuff witch sitting next to him, and another
Hufflepuff sitting one row above him, if they could move aside. Then
Harry drew forth from his pouch a huge scroll, and unfurled it into a
2-metre-tall banner which stuck in place in mid-air. The enchantment had
been done courtesy of a sixth-year Ravenclaw who had a reputation for
knowing less about Quidditch than Harry did.

In huge, glowing purple letters, the sign read:

JUST BUY A CLOCK

2 : 06 : 47

Beneath it was a Snitch, with a blinking red X over it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Second, after second, after second, the time counter incremented.

As that counter rose higher, there seemed to be an awful lot of
Hufflepuffs who’d decided that they wanted to sit next to Harry’s
banner.

As the game dragged on past nine, there also seemed to be a lot of
Gryffindors.

As the sun set and Harry started using Lumos to read his books—he’d
given up on the actual game a long time ago—there were a noticeable
number of Ravenclaws who’d betrayed patriotism for sanity.

And Professor Sinistra.

And Professor Vector.

And as the stars began to come out, Professor Flitwick.

The climactic final Quidditch game of the year… dragged on.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things Harry hadn’t planned on, when he’d decided to do this,
was that he would still be out here at—Harry glanced at his
watch—eleven-oh-four at night. Harry was now reading a sixth-year
Transfiguration textbook; or rather he’d weighted the book open,
illuminated by a Muggle glow stick, while he did one of the exercises.
Last week, when the graduating Ravenclaws were discussing their N.E.W.T.
scores, Harry had overheard that upper-year Transfiguration practice
involved several ‘shaping exercises’ that relied more on control and
precise thinking than raw power; and Harry had promptly set out to learn
those, whacking himself hard on the forehead for not trying to read all
the later-year textbooks earlier. Professor McGonagall had approved
Harry doing a shaping exercise that involved controlling the way in
which a Transfiguring object approached its final form—for example,
Transfiguring a quill so that the shaft grew out first, then the barbs.
Harry was doing an analogous exercise with pencils, growing out the lead
first, then surrounding it with wood and finally having the eraser form
on top. As Harry had suspected, focusing his attention and magic into a
particular part of the pencil’s ongoing transformation had proven
similar to the mental discipline used in partial Transfiguration—which
could indeed have been used to fake the same effect, by partially
Transfiguring only the outer layers of the object. This way was proving
relatively easier, though.

Harry finished his current pencil and looked up at the Quidditch game,
which was, check, still fantastically boring. Lee Jordan was
commentating in a tone of dull disgust, “Another ten
points—yay—whoopee—and now someone takes possession of the Quaffle
again—ask if I care who.”

Almost nobody remaining in the stands was paying attention either, since
everyone who’d remained in the stadium seemed to have discovered a new
and more interesting sport, the debate about how to amend the House Cup
rules and/or Quidditch. The argument had become heated to the point
where all of the nearby Professors were barely keeping order at a level
short of open combat. This argument, unfortunately, had considerably
more than two factions. Some annoying busybodies were proposing
sensible-sounding alternatives to eliminating the Snitch entirely, and
this was threatening to split the vote and sap the momentum for reform.

In retrospect, Harry thought, it would have been nice to have Draco
unfurl his own banner from the Slytherin side saying ‘SNITCHES ARE
AWESOME’, to set the polarity of the debate. Harry had squinted over at
the Slytherin section earlier, but he hadn’t been able to spot Draco
anywhere in the stands. Severus Snape, who could also have been
sympathetic enough to play the villainous opposition, was likewise
nowhere to be seen.

“Mr Potter?” said a voice next to him.

Beside Harry’s seat was standing a short but older Hufflepuff boy,
someone who’d never before come to Harry’s attention, holding out a
blank parchment envelope with wax dripped on the front. The wax was also
blank, without impression.

“What is it?” said Harry.

“It’s me,” said the boy. “With the envelope you gave me. I know you said
not to talk to you, but—”

“Then don’t talk to me,” Harry said.

The boy tossed the envelope at Harry and walked away, looking offended.
It made Harry wince a little, but it probably hadn’t been the wrong
decision considering the temporal issues…

Then Harry broke the unsigned wax seal and drew out the envelope’s
contents. It was parchment instead of the Muggle paper that Harry would
have expected, but the writing on it was his own handwriting, if done
with a quill instead of a pen. The parchment said:

Beware the constellation,
and help the watcher of stars.
Pass unseen by the life-eaters’ confederates,
and by the wise and the well-meaning.
Six, and seven in a square,
in the place that is prohibited and bloody stupid.

Harry took it in at a glance, then folded the paper again and put it
back into his cloak with another exhaled sigh. ‘Beware the
constellation’, really? Harry would have expected a riddle left by
himself, to himself, to have been easier to interpret… though some parts
were obvious enough. Clearly future-Harry had been worried about this
paper being intercepted, and while present-Harry wouldn’t ordinarily
have thought of the local Aurors as ‘the ones in league with the
Dementors of Azkaban’, maybe that had been the best way to say ‘Auror’
without potentially tipping off anyone else who read the parchment and
did their own best to decrypt it. Translating the idiom back out of the
Parseltongue he’d used during the Incident with Azkaban… that worked,
Harry supposed.

The note had said that Professor Quirrell needed help, and that whatever
was going on needed to pass unnoticed from the Aurors, and from
Dumbledore and McGonagall and Flitwick. Since Time-Turning was involved
already, the obvious solution was to leave for the loo, travel back in
time, and return to the game right after he’d left.

Harry started to rise from his seat, then hesitated. His Hufflepuff side
was remarking something about leaving the Auror escorts behind and not
telling Professor McGonagall anything, and wondering if his future self
was being stupid.

Harry unfolded the parchment again, and took another glance at the
contents.

On closer examination, the riddle-verse didn’t say that Harry couldn’t
bring anyone along. Draco Malfoy… was he missing from the Quidditch game
because future-Harry, hours in the past, had brought Draco with him as
backup? But that didn’t make sense, there wasn’t much marginal
improvement in safety from bringing along another first-year…

…Draco Malfoy would certainly have been present, regardless of his
personal feelings about Quidditch, to watch Slytherin clinch the House
Cup. Had something happened to him?

Suddenly Harry didn’t feel as tired any more.

A trickle of adrenaline was starting to rise in Harry, but no, this
wouldn’t be like the troll. The message had told Harry when to arrive.
Harry wouldn’t be too late, not this time.

Harry glanced over at where Cedric Diggory was looking back and forth,
visibly torn between a clutch of Ravenclaws arguing that the Snitch had
to be kept because it was traditional and rules were rules, and a pack
of Hufflepuffs saying that it wasn’t fair for the Seeker to be more
important than the other players.

Cedric Diggory had been an excellent duelling tutor to Harry and
Neville, and Harry had thought they’d established a good relationship.
More importantly, a student taking literally all of the electives would
have his own Time-Turner. Maybe Harry could try to get Cedric to go back
in time with him? The Super Hufflepuff seemed like a good spare wand to
have by your side in any sort of sticky situation…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Later, and earlier

Harry’s watch now said 11:45, which translated into 6:45 p.m. after
looping back five hours.

“It’s time,” Harry murmured to the empty air, and began walking down the
third-floor corridor above the grand staircase, on the right-hand side.

‘The place that is prohibited’ would ordinarily mean the Forbidden
Forest; that was probably what someone intercepting the message was
meant to think. But the Forbidden Forest was huge, and there was more
than one distinguished location inside it. No obvious Schelling Point at
which to rendezvous, or find some event that needed intervention.

But when you added the ‘bloody stupid’ modifier, there was only one
prohibited place in Hogwarts that fit.

And so Harry set forth on that outlawed path where, if rumour spoke
true, all the first-year Gryffindors had gone before. The third-floor
corridor, on the right-hand side. A mysterious door leading to a series
of rooms filled with dangerous and potentially lethal traps that nobody
could possibly get through, especially if they were only in their first
year.

Harry didn’t know himself what sort of traps awaited. Which, on
reflection, meant that the students who’d gone through had been
surprisingly scrupulous about not ruining the puzzle for others. Maybe
there was a sign down there saying Don’t give it away, just as a favour
to me, sincerely Headmaster Dumbledore. All Harry knew so far was that
the outer door would open to Alohomora, and that the final room
contained a magic mirror that would show your reflection in some
situation you found highly appealing, which was apparently the big
pay-off.

The third-floor corridor was illuminated by dim blue light that seemed
to come from nowhere, and the arches were covered with cobwebs, as
though the corridor hadn’t been used in centuries rather than just the
last year.

Harry’s pouch was loaded with useful Muggle things, and useful wizarding
things, and everything he’d found that could possibly be a quest item.
(Harry had asked Professor McGonagall to recommend someone who could
expand the pouch’s capacity, and she’d just done it herself.) Harry had
applied the Charm he’d learned for battles that made his eyeglasses
stick to his face, regardless of how his head moved. Harry had refreshed
the Transfigurations he was maintaining, both the tiny jewel in the ring
on his hand and the other one, in case he was knocked unconscious. He
wasn’t literally ready for anything, but Harry was as ready as he
thought he could be.

The five-sided floor tiles creaked beneath Harry’s shoes and vanished
behind him like the future becoming the past. It was almost 6:49—six,
and seven in a square. Obvious if you thought in Muggle maths, otherwise
not so much.

Just as Harry was about to round another corner, something tickled at
the back of his mind, and he heard a soft voice talking.

“…sensible person… wait until later… after certain faculty had
departed…”

Harry stopped, then crept forward as lightly as he could, not going
around the corner, trying to hear Professor Quirrell’s voice better.

There came a louder cough, and then the soft voice spoke again from
around the corner. “But if they were also… to depart themselves… at that
time…” murmured the voice, “they might think… this final game… makes for
the best distraction… left in this year… a predictable distraction. So I
looked… to see what people of significance… were not at the game… and I
saw the Headmaster missing… but for all my magic can tell me… he could
be in another… realm of existence… I also saw your own absence… so I
decided to go… where you were. That is what I am doing here… now… what
are you doing here?”

Harry breathed shallowly, and listened.

“And just how did you know where I was?” drawled the voice of Severus
Snape, so much louder that Harry nearly jumped.

A small, coughing laugh. “Check your wand… for Trace.”

Severus said something in magical pseudo-Latin, and then, “You dared
tamper with my wand? You dared?”

“You are a suspect… just like myself… so your false indignation is
wasted… however finely crafted it may be… now tell me… what are you
doing?”

“I am watching this door,” said the voice of Professor Snape. “And I
will ask you to be off from it!”

“On whose authority… are you ordering me… my fellow Professor?”

There was a pause, then, “Why, the Headmaster’s,” came the smooth voice
of Severus Snape. “I was ordered by him to watch this door during the
Quidditch match, and as a Professor I must obey his whims. I shall have
words about it with the Board of Governors later, but for now I am doing
as I must. Now be off with you, as the Headmaster desires.”

“What? You mean I am to believe… that you abandoned your Slytherins…
during their most important… game of the year… and leapt up like a dog…
at Dumbledore’s word? Well that… I must say… is entirely plausible. Even
so… I think it would be wise… if I kept my own watch over you… while you
watch this fine door.” There was a sound of rustling cloth and a soft
thud, as if someone had sat down hard upon the ground, or maybe just
fallen.

“Oh, for the love of Merlin—” Severus Snape’s voice now sounded angry.
“Get up, you!”

“Ba-blu-a-bu-bluh—” said the Defence Professor’s zombie-mode.

“Get up!” said Severus Snape, and there was a soft thud.

Help the watcher of stars—

Harry stepped around the corner, though it was possible that he’d have
done so even without an inter-temporal message. Had Professor Snape just
kicked Professor Quirrell? That would have been foolhardy if Professor
Quirrell had been dead and buried.

A round-topped door of dark wood was framed within a stone arch, set
within the dusty marble bricks of Hogwarts. Where a Muggle would have
set a doorknob there was only a handle of polished metal; there were no
visible locks, or visible keyholes. Set upon the wall to either side, a
pair of torches burned, sending forth an ominous orange glow. Before the
door stood the Potions Master in his customary stained robes. Beside the
door, to the left side beneath the orange torch, slumped the form of the
Defence Professor, back against the wall, head staring out at the
surroundings. The eyes seemed to flicker, as if halfway between
awareness, and emptiness.

“What,” said the towering form of the Potions Master, “are you doing
here, Potter?”

Going by facial expressions and tone of voice, the Potions Master was
quite angry with Harry; and certainly was not Harry’s co-conspirator in
councils to which the Defence Professor had never been invited.

“I’m not sure,” Harry said. He wasn’t sure what role he should be
playing, and was, in desperation, falling back on simple honesty. “I
think perhaps I’m supposed to be keeping an eye on the Defence
Professor.”

The Potions Master stared at him coldly. “Where’s your escort, Potter?
Students are not to wander these halls alone!”

Harry’s mind was genuinely blank. The game was afoot, and nobody had
told him the rules. “I’m not sure how to answer that…”

The cold expression on Professor Snape’s face flickered. “Perhaps I
should call the Aurors,” he said.

“Wait!” Harry blurted.

The Potions Master’s hand hovered about his robes. “Why?” said the
Potions Master.

“I… I just think you probably shouldn’t call them…”

In a blur, the Potions Master’s wand was in his hand. “Nullus
confundio!” A black jet darted out and hit Harry, striking in the
direction Harry had already started to dodge. There followed four other
spells, containing words like Polyfluis and Metamorphus; and for those
Harry politely stood still.

After all of those spells had failed to produce any effect, Severus
Snape was staring at Harry with a dark glitter that now seemed genuine.
“I suggest,” the Potions Master said softly, “that you explain yourself,
Potter.”

“I can’t explain myself,” Harry said. “I don’t have the Time, not yet.”

Harry looked directly into the Potions Master’s gaze as he said the
words myself and time, widening his own eyes to try to convey the key
information, and the Potions Master hesitated.

Harry was frantically trying to work out who was pretending to be what.
Since Professor Quirrell wasn’t in on Dumbledore’s conspiracy, Severus
was pretending to be the evil Potions Master of Hogwarts, who’d been
sent here by the Headmaster… and might or might not have actually been
sent here by Dumbledore… but Professor Quirrell either thought, or was
pretending to think, that someone needed to keep an eye on Professor
Snape… and Harry himself had been sent here by future-Harry and had no
idea why… and why were they all standing outside the Headmaster’s
forbidden door in the first place?

And then…

From behind where Harry stood…

Came the growing sound of another set of footsteps, rapid and manyfold.

Professor Snape stabbed his wand once, creating a burst of darkness that
shrouded where the Defence Professor was lying. “Muffliato,” the Potions
Master hissed. “Mr Potter, if you must be here, then hide! Put on your
invisibility cloak! My duty is to guard this door in case he comes here.
And there has been—a disturbance, meant to draw the Headmaster, he
thinks—”

“Who—”

Severus took a long stride forward and snapped his wand against the side
of Harry’s head. There was a trickling sensation like an egg had been
cracked over him, the feeling of a Disillusionment Charm; and Harry’s
hands faded out, followed by the rest of him.

The darkness shrouding one side of the wall dissipated like slow mist,
and there was again visible the huddled form of the Defence Professor,
who said nothing.

Harry tiptoed away quietly as he could, then turned to watch.

The approaching footsteps rounded the corner—

“What are you doing here?” came many simultaneous cries.

Trimmed in three sets of Slytherin green and one Hufflepuff yellow stood
Theodore Nott, Daphne Greengrass, Susan Bones, and Tracey Davis.

“Where,” said Professor Snape with mounting wrath, “are your escorts,
children? First-years must be accompanied by a sixth or seventh-year
student at all times! Especially you!”

Theodore Nott raised his hand. “We’re, um,” said Theodore Nott. “We’re
doing what the Chaos Legion calls a team-building exercise… see, we
realized just now that none of us had tried the Headmaster’s forbidden
chamber yet, and there wasn’t much time left… and Harry Potter has
authorized it, Professor, he said specifically that you mustn’t
interfere.”

Severus Snape turned to glance over at where Harry Potter had tiptoed; a
storm seemed to be gathering on his brow, and a dark fury in his eyes.

I… maybe? There was still one hour left on Harry’s Time-Turner, so it
was possible.

“Harry Potter does not have that authority,” the Potions Master said in
a deceptively mild tone. “Explain yourselves, now.”

“Really?” said the form of Susan Bones. “Really? You’re telling
Professor Snape that Harry Potter authorized the mission, that’s your
idea of a bluff?” The young Hufflepuff turned to Professor Snape and
spoke, her voice strangely firm. “Professor, this is the truth and it’s
urgent. Draco Malfoy is missing and we think he went down there—”

“If Mr Malfoy is missing,” said Professor Snape, “why have the Aurors
not been notified?”

“Because of, because of reasons!” cried Daphne Greengrass. “There’s no
time, you’ve got to let us through!”

Professor Snape’s voice was now as sardonic as Harry had ever heard it.
“Are you four morons under the impression that you are on some sort of
adventure? Well, you are mistaken. I assure you that Mr Malfoy has not
passed through this door.”

“We think Mr Malfoy has an invisibility cloak,” Susan Bones said
rapidly. “Do you remember the door seeming to open for no reason?”

“No,” the Potions Master said. “Now be gone from here. This place is
off-limits for today.”

“This is Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor,” Tracey said. “The Headmaster
himself said nobody was to come here. Who do you think you are,
forbidding it too?”

“Miss Davis,” said the Potions Master, “you need to stop associating
with Gryffindors, especially those named Lavender Brown. And if you are
still here in one minute, I will file papers requesting your transfer
into that House.”

“You wouldn’t dare!” shrieked Tracey.

“Hm,” Susan Bones said, her face screwed up in concentration. “Professor
Snape, do you occasionally open the door yourself, to check on
whatever’s inside?”

Professor Snape froze in place. Then he spun and put his right hand on
the metal knocker—

Harry was watching the hand on the knocker, so he didn’t notice what
Professor Snape was doing with his left hand until he heard the sudden
cry.

“No, in fact,” said Professor Snape, now holding the choking head of
Draco Malfoy by his collar, though the rest of Draco was still
underneath his invisibility cloak. “A fine try, though.”

“What?” cried Tracey and Daphne.

Susan Bones hit herself in the forehead. “I can’t believe I fell for
that.”

“So, Mr Malfoy,” Professor Snape said. His voice had lowered. “You sent
your friends here on a ruse… just in the hopes that you could pass
through this door? Now why would you do that?”

“I think we should trust him—” said Theodore Nott. “Mr Malfoy, we’ve got
to trust him, he’s the one Professor who would take our side!”

“No!” cried Draco’s floating head, from where Professor Snape was still
grasping his collar. “You mustn’t say anything! Stop!”

“We’ve got to take the chance!” yelled Theodore. “Professor Snape,
Mr Malfoy finally worked out what’s been going on this whole year, and
why—Dumbledore is trying to get the Philosopher’s Stone away from
Nicholas Flamel! Because Dumbledore doesn’t think anyone ought to have
immortality! So Dumbledore tried to convince Flamel that the Dark Lord
was coming back and needed the Stone to revive, and asked Flamel to give
it to him, but Flamel wouldn’t, and instead Flamel put the Stone in the
magic mirror that’s down there, and Dumbledore is finding out right now
how to get it, and then he’ll come for it and we’ve got to get to it
first! Dumbledore really will be all-powerful if he gets the
Philosopher’s Stone!”

“What?” said Tracey. “That’s not what you said before!”

“It—” Daphne said. She looked frightened, but determined. “It doesn’t
matter—Professor Snape, please, you have to believe me. I looked at the
books Hermione checked out of the library, and she was researching the
Philosopher’s Stone just before someone killed her. Her notes said that
something dangerous might happen if the Stone stays inside the mirror
too long. We have to get it out of the castle right away.”

Susan Bones now had both hands over her face. “I’m not with them, I just
came along to prevent anything even stupider from happening.”

Severus Snape was staring at Theodore Nott and the others. Then he
turned his head to look at Draco Malfoy. “Mr Malfoy,” the Potions Master
drawled. “How did you come to discover Dumbledore’s plot?”

“I deduced it from evidence!” said Draco Malfoy’s floating head.

Professor Snape’s head swivelled back to Theodore Nott. “How did you
intend to obtain this Stone from inside a magic mirror that could
supposedly baffle Dumbledore himself? Answer me at once!”

“We’re going to take the whole mirror and send it back to Flamel,” said
Theodore Nott. “It’s not like we want the Stone for ourselves, we just
need to stop Dumbledore from stealing it.”

Professor Snape nodded, as though confirming something, and turned his
head to look at the other students. “Tell me, have any of you noticed
one of the others behaving in an unusual fashion? Especially if there is
a peculiar object that they have in their possession, or they can use
spells a first-year should not know?” Professor Snape’s right hand now
pointed his wand at Susan Bones. “I see that Miss Greengrass and
Miss Davis are trying not to look at you, Miss Bones. If there is a
mundane explanation, you would be wise to offer it immediately.”

Susan Bones’s hair turned bright red, though her face didn’t change. “I
suppose there’s not much point keeping it mum any longer,” she said,
“since I’m graduating in two days anyway.”

“Double witches get to graduate six years early?” said Tracey Davis.
“That’s not fair!”

“Bones is a double witch?” cried Theodore.

“No, she is Nymphadora Tonks, a Metamorphmagus,” Professor Snape said.
“Masquerading as another student is extremely against regulation, as you
are well aware, Miss Tonks. It is not too late to expel you from
Hogwarts two days before your graduation, which would be a dreadful
tragedy—from your perspective, that is. From my perspective it would be
hilarious. Now tell me what exactly you are doing here.”

“That explains it,” said Daphne Greengrass. “Um, is there actually a
Susan Bones, or is the House dying out so they had you secretly—”

The red-haired form of Susan Bones had a palm to her face. “Yes,
Miss Greengrass, there’s a real Susan Bones. She only sends me in when
you lot are about to get into ridiculous amounts of trouble. Professor
Snape, the reason I’m here is because Draco Malfoy was missing, and this
lot insisted on trying to find him instead of calling the Aurors. For
reasons the real Miss Bones said there was no time to explain to me,
which I now realize were stupid. But young students must never go alone,
and must be accompanied by a sixth- or seventh-year at all times. And
now we found Draco Malfoy and we can all go back. Please? Before this
gets any more ridiculous?”

“What in Merlin’s name is going on here?”

“Ah,” said Professor Snape, who was still pointing the wand at the
red-haired form of Susan Bones, his other hand still grasping the collar
below the disembodied head of Draco Malfoy, standing next to the
crumpled form of the Defence Professor. “Professor Sprout, I perceive.”

“It’s not what it looks like,” volunteered Tracey Davis.

The short, dumpy form of the Herbology Professor stormed forwards. She
had, by this point, drawn her wand, though she wasn’t pointing it at
anyone. “I don’t even know what this looks like! Down wands, all of you,
right now! Including you, Professor!”

Distraction. The thought came to Harry with sudden clarity. Whatever he
was watching now, from where he stood invisibly and well back of the
action, it wasn’t what was really going on, it wasn’t the true thread of
the story, it had been arranged. Professor Sprout’s arrival had broken
Harry’s suspension of disbelief; things like that didn’t happen just for
the sake of comedic coincidence. Someone was deliberately causing all
this chaos, but what was the point?

Harry really hoped he hadn’t gone back in time and done this, because it
did seem like the sort of thing he would do.

Severus Snape lowered his wand. His other hand released Draco Malfoy.
“Professor Sprout,” the Potions Master said, “I am here on the
Headmaster’s orders to watch this door. Everyone else present is not
supposed to be here, and I ask you to see them cleared away.”

“A likely story,” snapped Professor Sprout. “Why would Dumbledore set
you of all people to guard the door to his playground? It’s not as if he
wants to keep the students out, oh no, they need to go in and get stuck
in my Devil’s Snare! Susan, dear, you’ve got a communications mirror,
don’t you? Use it to call the Aurors.”

The watching Harry nodded to himself. That was the point. The Aurors
would take away everyone present at this terribly confusing situation,
no excuses accepted, and then the door would be unguarded.

But was Harry meant to go into the forbidden corridor himself? Or watch,
to see who finally came once all the others were gone?

A loud fit of hacking and coughing caused everyone to look at where the
Defence Professor lay.

“Snape… listen…” said the Defence Professor between coughs. “Why…
Sprout… here…”

The Potions Master looked down.

“Memory Charm—implies—Professor—” The Defence Professor began coughing
again.

“What?”

And the logic unfolded in Harry’s mind in crystalline dismay, all the
steps already suspected, the dreadful realization coming as a repetition
with greater confidence.

Someone had Memory-Charmed Hermione to believe she’d tried to kill
Draco.

Only a Hogwarts Professor could have done it without alarm.

So all the true mastermind needed to do was Legilimize or Imperius a
Hogwarts Professor.

And the last person anyone would suspect would be the Head of House
Hufflepuff.

Snape’s head snapped around, as Professor Sprout raised her wand, and
the Potions Master managed to raise a wordless translucent ward between
them. But the bolt that shot from Professor Sprout’s wand was a dark
brown that produced a surge of awful apprehension in Harry’s mind; and
the brown bolt made Severus’s shield wink out before they touched,
clipping the Potions Master’s right arm even as he dodged. Professor
Snape gave a muffled shriek and his hand spasmed, dropping his wand.

The next bolt that came from Sprout’s wand was a bright red the colour
of a Stunning Hex, seeming to grow brighter and move faster even as it
left her wand, accompanied by another surge of anxiety; and that blew
the Potions Master into the door, dropping him motionless to the ground.

By that time pink-haired-Susan-Bones was surrounded by a multifaceted
blue haze and she was firing hex after hex at Professor Sprout.
Professor Sprout was ignoring the hexes to summon plant tendrils that
entangled the younger students as they tried to run, except Draco
Malfoy, who had again vanished beneath his invisibility cloak.

Not-Susan-Bones stopped casting hexes. She levelled her wand, took a
deep breath, and cried aloud an incantation that sent golden worms of
light chewing into the shield around Professor Sprout. At that the
Herbology Professor turned to face not-Susan, her expression vacant, a
new set of plant tentacles rising in the air behind her. Those stalks
were a darker green, and seemed to have shields of their own.

Harry Potter murmured to the seemingly empty air, “Attack Sprout. Help
Bones. Non-lethal only.”

“Yes, my lord,” whispered Lesath Lestrange beneath Harry’s Cloak of
Invisibility, and the fifth-year Slytherin’s presence moved off toward
the fight.

Harry looked down at his own hands, and saw with a jolt of unpleasant
shock that his Disillusionment Charm wasn’t as complete as it had been
before. There were hints of distortion in the air, each time Harry
moved…

Slowly, Harry stepped backward, until he came to a corner, and ducked
behind a wall. Then he took out his communications mirror… which was
blank and jammed. Of course. Harry levitated the mirror to where he
could use it to see around the corner, and watch the end of the…
distraction? What was happening, why?

Professor Sprout and the form of Susan Bones were duelling in flashes of
light and leaves; and the blazing green of a Greater Drill Hex erupted
from mid-air and chewed halfway through the outer layer of Professor
Sprout’s shields. The Herbology Professor turned and fired a broad wash
of yellow at where the Drill Hex had come from, but the spell didn’t
seem to hit anything.

Yellow blazes, blue facets, dark green plant tendrils and swirling
purple flower petals…

It was when Professor Sprout started firing arcs of crimson in all
directions that one of the crimson blades caught something in mid-air,
the Invisibility Cloak not concealing how the crimson arc was absorbed
and winked out; and Lesath’s presence beneath the Invisibility Cloak
fell to the ground.

And that gave not-Susan-Bones time enough to stand still, catch her
breath, and scream something that inspired in Harry another surge of
dread; and the white spark that blazed forth went through Professor
Sprout’s chewed shields and her plant-armour and dropped her.

Not-Susan-Bones went to her knees, panting, her robes soaked in sweat.

Her head turned to look around her, at the bodies lying stunned on the
floor or wrapped in vines.

“What,” said not-Susan. “What. What. What.”

There was no reply. The victims entangled in Professor Sprout’s vines
weren’t moving, though they did seem to be breathing.

“Malfoy…” said the pink-haired form of Susan, still gasping for breath.
“Draco Malfoy, where are you? Are you there? Call the Aurors already!
Merlin damn it—Hominem Revelio!”

And Harry found himself visible again, staring in his mirror at the form
of Draco Malfoy half-visible beneath a shimmering cloak, standing behind
not-Susan, pointing his wand at a gap in not-Susan’s blue haze.

Harry’s mind moved in flashes of rapid insight, and yet too slow; even
as Harry’s mouth opened and he inhaled in preparation to shout…

beware the constellation
there was a constellation named Draco
if you could control a Professor you could control a student

“Duck!” Harry shouted, but it was too late, a bolt of red light caught
the back of not-Susan’s head point-blank, smashing her to the floor.

Harry stepped around the corner and said, “Somnium Somnium Somnium
Somnium Somnium Somnium.”

Draco Malfoy’s shimmering form collapsed in a heap.

Harry took a moment to catch his breath. Then Harry said “Stupefy!” and
verified that, yes, the Stunning Hex did hit Draco Malfoy’s form.

(You could be mistaken about whether a Somnium had really hit. Harry had
seen enough horror films, not to mention the business with the Sunshine
Regiment, that he wasn’t about to make that error again.)

After a further reflection on this, Harry cast another Stunning Hex into
the prostrate form of Professor Sprout.

Harry gripped his wand, staring at the scene, breathing heavily from the
exhaustion. He didn’t have enough magic left to cast a messenger
Patronus to Dumbledore and he really really should have thought of that
possibility immediately this time around. Harry started to reach back to
where his mirror had fallen, to see if it was now unjammed.

And then Harry hesitated.

His note to himself had said to avoid notice from Aurors, and Harry
still did not know what was going on.

The crumpled form of Professor Quirrell gave another series of racking
coughs, reached out a hand to the wall beside him, and slowly pulled
himself to his feet.

“Harry,” croaked Professor Quirrell. “Harry. Are you there?”

It was the first time Professor Quirrell had ever called him by his
first name.

“I’m here,” Harry said. Without any conscious thought, his feet were
moving forward.

“Please,” said Professor Quirrell. “Please, I haven’t… much time. Please
take me… to the mirror… help me… get the Stone.”

“The Philosopher’s Stone?” Harry said. He glanced around at the
scattered bodies, but he couldn’t see Draco any more, the revealment had
worn off. “You think Mr Nott was right? I don’t think Dumbledore would—”

“Not—Dumbledore,” gasped Professor Quirrell. “Because—Sprout—”

“I understand,” Harry said. If Dumbledore had been the one behind it
all, he wouldn’t have needed to mind-control a Professor in order to use
Memory Charms.

“Mirror… ancient relic… could hide anything… Stone could be there… many
others want Stone… one sent Sprout…”

Harry repeated rapidly, “The mirror down there is an ancient relic that
can be used to hide things, and it would be one possible place to hide
the Philosopher’s Stone. If the Philosopher’s Stone is inside the mirror
then any number of people might want to get it. One of them is
controlling Sprout and that would explain what their goal really is…
only… that doesn’t explain why Sprout’s controller would go after
Hermione?”

“Harry, please,” Professor Quirrell said. His breathing was yet more
laboured now, his voice came with excruciating slowness. “It’s the one
thing… that can save my life… and I find, now… I don’t want to die…
please, help me…”

And somehow that tore it.

Somehow that was a little too much.

The sense of detachment that had come over Harry when Professor Sprout
had arrived, the broken suspension of disbelief, was returning; his
Inner Critic weighing up everything as though it were a set-piece.
Timing, probability, so many people showing up at the same door, the
Defence Professor’s desperation… this whole situation didn’t feel real.
But he might be able to solve it if he just took time to think things
through in advance, instead of running off at adventure’s first call.
All the accumulated experience from the last year had finally
crystallized into something like a touch of battle hardening. An
instinct born of past disaster was telling Harry that if he just rushed
on ahead, he would end up afterwards in a sad conversation, realizing
that he’d been stupid. Again.

“Let me think,” Harry said. “Let me think for a minute before we go.” He
turned away from the Defence Professor, looking at the unconscious
bodies draped in various shapes over the floor. There’d been so many
puzzle pieces already, this last year, maybe everything would just fall
into place with one more piece…

“Harry…” the Defence Professor said in a faltering voice. “Harry, I’m
dying…”

One more minute can’t make the difference he’s had the whole year to be
sick it’s improbable that his life versus death would be precisely timed
to rest on this last minute no matter what happened to Hermione—

“I know!” Harry said. “I’ll think quickly!”

Harry stared at the bodies and tried to think. There was no time for
doubts, for caveats, no brakes or second-guessing just take the first
thoughts and run with them—

In the back of Harry’s mind, fragments of abstract thought flitted past,
heuristics of problem-solving that there was no time to rehearse in
words. In wordless flashes they shot past, to set up the object-level
problem.

—what do I notice I am confused by—

—the first place to look for a problem is whatever aspect of the
situation seems most improbable—

—simple explanations are more probable, eliminate separate
improbabilities that must be postulated—

Professor Snape had already been here then Professor Quirrell had
arrived then Harry had arrived (via Time-Turner) then the adventuring
party had arrived and Draco had been revealed (part of the party) then
Professor Sprout had shown up.

Too many people had shown up synchronously and that was too much
coincidence, it was improbable that so many different parties would show
up at the same location within a five-minute window, there had to be
hidden entanglements.

Label Sprout’s controller as the mastermind who had ordered Hermione
Memory-Charmed. The mastermind had sent Sprout.

Professor Snape had said that the Headmaster had sent him to guard the
door after there’d been some sort of disturbance, if the mastermind had
caused that as a distraction then that explained Severus’s presence as
well.

Harry wasn’t sure any more that Draco had been controlled by the
mastermind, that hypothesis had come to him on the spur of the moment,
Draco might have just been trying to drop not-Susan so he could get into
the corridor unhindered—

No that was the wrong way to think, turn it around, try to explain the
timed presence of Draco and his adventuring party, no time for
self-questioning, run with the hypothesis, therefore suppose Sprout’s
mastermind had sent Draco or triggered his coming.

That was three arrivals explained.

Harry had shown up because his note to himself had told him to do so.
That could be attributed to time travel.

That left the Defence Professor who’d said he was following Snape, only
that didn’t really seem like an adequate reason for Professor Quirrell
to show up it didn’t really make Harry feel less confused and so maybe
the mastermind had also controlled the timing of Professor Quirrell’s
presence somehow and even arranged for Harry himself to enter the time
loop.

Harry’s mind hit a stumbling-block, he couldn’t see how to extend that
reasoning further.

There was no time to stare blankly at stumbling-blocks.

Without any pause or braking Harry’s mind attacked the problem from a
new angle.

Professor Quirrell had deduced a controlled Hogwarts Professor from the
need for some Professor to Memory-Charm Hermione which meant that
Professor Sprout’s controller had framed and then murdered Hermione
which meant Professor Sprout’s controller had detailed information about
Hogwarts life and maybe a personal interest in the Boy-Who-Lived and his
friends.

Harry’s mind finally threw up the relevant memory, Dumbledore saying
that Lord Voldemort’s strongest road to life was hidden here inside
Hogwarts run with the hypothesis so that resurrection tool was the
Philosopher’s Stone hidden inside the mirror why had Dumbledore put the
mirror into a corridor first-years could get through no ignore this
question it’s not important right now and Professor Quirrell had said
the Philosopher’s Stone possessed great healing power so that part also
fit.

But if it was the Philosopher’s Stone that was hidden in the mirror to
keep it away from the Dark Lord, that meant the mirror also contained
the one thing in the world that could save the Defence Professor’s life—

Harry’s mind tried to hesitate, to flinch away, feeling a sudden
apprehension as to where this was going.

But there was no time allowed for hesitation.

—and that was also far too much coincidence just too much improbability
if your mind didn’t write it off as an amazing plot twist like you were
inside a story.

Could the putative Dark Lord also be manipulating Professor Quirrell so
that Professor Quirrell would discover his supposed salvation at the
right time so that Harry and Professor Quirrell would go get the
resurrection tool from the mirror that might not even actually be the
Philosopher’s Stone and then the Dark Lord’s avatar or some other
servant would show up and seize it from them that would explain all the
synchronies and negate every coincidence.

Or Professor Quirrell had known from the beginning that the one thing
that could save his life was hidden inside this mirror and that was why
he had agreed to teach Defence at Hogwarts and now he was finally trying
to get it but then why wait until he was this sick to even try and why
had Sprout shown up at the same time as Professor Quirrell—

Harry’s mind faltered harder.

His inner eye was looking in a direction it was afraid to look.

The note I sent myself said to help the watcher of stars. I wouldn’t
send myself a note saying that, if I hadn’t already worked out in the
future that it was the right thing to do—maybe the note is just telling
me to get on with it—

A small note of confusion was promoted to conscious attention.

The coded message on the parchment… one or two lines hadn’t quite
sounded right, hadn’t sounded like the code Harry would expect himself
to use…

“Harry,” whispered the dying voice of Professor Quirrell from behind
him. “Harry, please.”

“I’m almost done thinking,” Harry’s voice said aloud, and Harry realized
as he spoke the words that they were true.

Turn it around.

Look at it from the Enemy’s perspective, from where the Enemy does their
own intelligent planning, somewhere out of your sight.

There are Aurors in Hogwarts, and your target Harry Potter is now fully
on guard. Harry Potter will call in Aurors at the first sign of trouble,
or send a Patronus to Albus Dumbledore. Considering that as a puzzle,
one creative solution is to—

—forge a supposedly Time-Turned message to Harry Potter from himself,
telling Harry Potter not to call for help, telling him to be at the
place and time you want him to be. You get the target himself to bypass
all the protections he set up. You even bypass his protection of
skepticism with the overriding authority of his own future self’s
judgement.

It isn’t even difficult. You can Memory-Charm some random student into
remembering Harry Potter handing over an envelope to be given back to
himself later.

You can Memory-Charm that student because you are a Hogwarts Professor.

You don’t go to the extra effort to steal a pencil and Muggle paper from
Harry Potter’s pouch. Instead you forge Harry Potter’s handwriting on
wizard parchment. You can forge Harry Potter’s handwriting because you
have seen it on Ministry-mandated exams you have graded.

You call Draco Malfoy ‘the constellation’ because you know Harry Potter
is interested in astronomy and you are a wizard and you have taken
Astronomy and memorised the names of all the constellations. But it’s
not the natural code that Harry Potter would use to describe Draco
Malfoy to himself, that would have been ‘the apprentice’.

You call Professor Quirrell ‘the watcher of stars’, and tell Harry
Potter to help him.

You know that life-eater is how you say ‘Dementor’ in Parseltongue and
you expect Harry Potter to think of the Aurors as being in league with
them.

You encode 6:49 as ‘six, and seven in a square’ because you have been
reading a Muggle physics book that Harry Potter gave you.

Who are you, then?

Harry noticed his breathing had sped up, and, heart racing for a moment,
slowed his breath down again; Professor Quirrell was watching him.

What if hypothetically speaking Professor Quirrell was the mastermind
and had faked Harry’s message then that explained all five parties
showing up the whole synchronous coordination of the comedy and then
Professor Sprout was just controlled to give Professor Quirrell
deniability let him blame someone else for the False Memory Charm after
the dust settled but

But why would Professor Quirrell risk the fragile alliance Harry had
with Draco via the attempted murder-frame

(that Professor Quirrell had ‘detected’ and ‘stopped’ allegedly via a
tracer put on Draco)

Why would Professor Quirrell kill Hermione

(if his first attempt to remove her hadn’t worked)

If Professor Quirrell was the bad guy then he might have lied about
everything to do with horcruxes and maybe it wasn’t coincidence at all
that the only thing that could save his life was the avenue that could
resurrect the Dark Lord what if the Dark Lord had arranged that too
somehow

(one day David Monroe had mysteriously disappeared, presumed dead at the
Dark Lord’s hands)

An awful intuition had come over Harry, something separate from all the
reasoning he’d done so far, an intuition that Harry couldn’t put into
words; except that he and the Defence Professor were very much alike in
certain ways, and faking a Time-Turned message was just the sort of
creative method that Harry himself might have tried to bypass all of a
target’s protections—

And that was when Harry finally realized what should have been obvious
from the very, very beginning.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Professor Quirrell was smart.

Professor Quirrell was smart in the same way as Harry.

Professor Quirrell was smart in exactly the same way as Harry’s
mysterious dark side.

If you had to guess when the Boy-Who-Lived had acquired his mysterious
dark side, the obvious guess was the night of October 31st, 1981.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And
And
And Professor Quirrell had known a password that Bellatrix Black had
thought identified the Dark Lord and his presence gave the Boy-Who-Lived
a sense of doom and his magic interacted destructively with Harry’s and
his favourite spell was Avada Kedavra and and and—

The realization blasted through Harry like a vast dam breaking,
releasing out all its water, bursting through his mind in an
irresistible flood that swept everything away.

There is only one reality that generates all of the observations.

If different observations seem to point in incompatible directions, it
means the true hypothesis is one you haven’t thought of yet.

And in those cases, when you finally think of the correct hypothesis,
everything aligns behind it, beyond denial or horror, tearing away every
doubt and every emotion that might stand in its path.

—and then ‘David Monroe’ and ‘Lord Voldemort’ had just been one person
playing both sides of the Wizarding War and that was why the Monroe
family had been killed before they could meet ‘David Monroe’ just like
Moody had suspected—

Reality settled down into a single known state, one coherent
state-of-affairs that compactly generated the observation set.

Harry didn’t jump, didn’t change his breathing, tried not to show a
single sign of the horror and agony flooding his mind.

The Enemy was behind him, watching him.

“All right,” Harry said out loud, as soon as he dared trust his voice to
sound normal. He kept on staring at the bodies, looking away from
Professor Quirrell, because Harry didn’t trust his own face. Harry
lifted a sleeve to wipe away the sweat on his forehead, trying to make
the gesture look casual; Harry couldn’t control the sweat, or the rapid
hammering in his chest. “Let’s go get the Philosopher’s Stone.”

All Harry needed was a single moment of distraction anywhere along the
way to use his Time-Turner.

There was no reply from behind him.

The silence stretched.

Slowly, Harry turned around.

Professor Quirrell was standing upright and smiling.

In the Defence Professor’s hand was a shape of black metal pointed at
Harry’s wand arm, held with the sure grip of someone who knew exactly
how to use a semi-automatic handgun.

Harry’s mouth was dry, even his lips were trembling with adrenaline, but
he managed to speak. “Hello, Lord Voldemort.”

Professor Quirrell inclined his head in acknowledgement, and said,
“Hello, Tom Riddle.”

105. The Truth, Part II

TOM Riddle.

The words seemed to echo inside Harry’s head, sparking resonances that
as quickly died away, broken patterns trying to complete themselves and
failing.

Tom Riddle is a

Tom Riddle was the

Riddle

There were other priorities occupying Harry’s attention.

Professor Quirrell was pointing a gun at him.

And for some reason Lord Voldemort hadn’t fired it yet.

Harry’s voice came out in more of a croak. “What is it that you want
from me?”

“Your death,” said Professor Quirrell, “is clearly not what I am about
to say, since I have had plenty of time to kill you if I wished. The
fateful battle between Lord Voldemort and the Boy-Who-Lived is a figment
of Dumbledore’s imagination. I know where to find your family’s house in
Oxford, and I am familiar with the concept of sniper rifles. You would
have died before you ever touched a wand. I hope this is clear to you,
Tom?”

“Crystal,” Harry whispered. His body was still shaking, running programs
more suited to fleeing a tiger than casting delicate spells or thinking.
But Harry could think of one thing the person pointing a gun at him
obviously wanted him to do, a question that person was waiting for him
to ask, and Harry did so. “Why are you calling me Tom?”

Professor Quirrell regarded him steadily. “Why am I calling you Tom?
Answer. Your intellect is not everything I hoped for, but it should
suffice for this.”

Harry’s mouth seemed to know the answer before his brain could manage to
focus on the question. “Tom Riddle is your name. Our name. That’s who
Lord Voldemort is, or was, or—something.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “Better. You have already vanquished the Dark
Lord, the one and only time that you will ever do so. I have already
destroyed all but a remnant of Harry Potter, eliminating the difference
between our spirits and enabling us to reside in the same world. Now
that it is clear to you that the battle between us is a lie, you might
act sensibly to advance your own interests. Or you might not.” The gun
jabbed slightly forward, causing prickles of sweat to appear on Harry’s
forehead. “Drop your wand. Now.”

Harry dropped it.

“Step away from the wand,” said Professor Quirrell.

Harry obeyed.

“Reach toward your neck,” said Professor Quirrell, “and remove your
Time-Turner, touching it by the chain only. Place the Time-Turner on the
ground, then step away from it as well.”

This also Harry did. Even in his state of shock, his mind still looked
for a way to spin the Time-Turner in the process, a sudden move that
would win; but Harry knew that Professor Quirrell would already be
imagining himself in Harry’s position, looking for the same possible
opportunities.

“Remove your pouch and place it also on the ground, then step away.”

Harry did this.

“Very good,” said the Defence Professor. “Now. It is time for me to
obtain the Philosopher’s Stone. I mean to bring along these four
first-years here, suitably Obliviated of their most recent memories so
that they still recall their original purpose. Snape I shall control and
set to guard this door. After this day’s work is done, I intend to kill
Snape for the betrayals he has offered my other identity. The three
heir-children I shall take with me afterwards, to shape their future
loyalties. And know this, I have taken hostages. I have already set in
motion a spell that will kill hundreds of Hogwarts students, including
many you called friends. I can stop that spell using the Stone, if I
obtain it successfully. If I am interrupted before then, or if I choose
not to stop the spell, hundreds of students will die.” Professor
Quirrell’s voice was still mild. “Do you yet perceive any interests you
have at stake, boy? I would smile to hear you say ‘no’, but that is too
much to hope.”

“I’d like,” Harry managed to say, through the horror, and the
heartbreak, and the knives slicing away at an emotional connection that
hurt like living flesh as it was cut, “for you not to do those things,
Professor.” Why, Professor Quirrell, why, why did it have to turn out
like this, I don’t, I don’t, I don’t want this to be happening…

“Very well,” Professor Quirrell said. “I grant you permission to offer
me something I want.” The gun gestured invitingly. “That is a rare
privilege, child. Lord Voldemort does not usually negotiate for what he
wants.”

Some part of Harry’s mind scrabbled frantically, looking for something,
anything that might be of more value to Lord Voldemort or Professor
Quirrell than child hostages or Severus’s death.

Another part of him, the part that had never stopped thinking, already
knew his answer.

“You already have an idea for what you want from me,” Harry said,
through the sickness and the bleeding wounds in his soul. “What is it?”

“Your help in obtaining the Philosopher’s Stone.”

Harry swallowed. He couldn’t stop his eyes from going to the gun, then
back up at Professor Quirrell’s face.

He was aware that the hero in a storybook was supposed to say ‘No’, but
now that he was actually in a situation like this, saying ‘No’ didn’t
seem to make sense.

“I am disappointed that you need to think about this,” said Professor
Quirrell. “It is straightforward that you should obey me for now, since
I hold every advantage over you. I have taught you better than this; in
this situation you should certainly pretend to lose. You can expect to
gain nothing by resisting, except pain. You should have calculated that
it was better to answer sooner, and not earn my distrust.” Professor
Quirrell’s eyes studied him curiously. “Perhaps Dumbledore has filled
your ears with nonsense about noble defiance? I find such morals
amusing, since they are so easy to manipulate. I assure you that I can
make defiance seem morally worse, and you would be well advised to
submit before I demonstrate how.” The gun stayed pointed at Harry; but
with a wave of Professor Quirrell’s other hand, Tracey Davis rose up
into the air, spun lazily, her limbs spread-eagled—

—then, even as new adrenaline hammered at Harry’s heart, Tracey floated
back down again.

“Choose,” said Professor Quirrell. “This begins to try my patience.”

I should have spoken just then, before he might’ve ripped off Tracey’s
legs, no, I shouldn’t have, the Headmaster said I mustn’t show Lord
Voldemort that I’ll do things if he threatens my friends because that
will just make him threaten more of them—only what he said before isn’t
a threat it’s just the sort of thing Lord Voldemort does—

Harry took a deep breath, several of them. Whatever part of him kept on
running on full automatic was screaming at the remainder of his mind
that it could not afford to stay in shock. Shocks were of finite
duration, neurons kept firing regardless, the only reason Harry’s mind
would shut down while his brain kept running was if Harry’s self-model
believed his mind would shut down—

“I don’t mean to try your patience,” Harry said. His voice was cracking.
That was good. Sounding like he was still in shock meant that Lord
Voldemort might give him more time. “But if Lord Voldemort had a
reputation for keeping his bargains, I don’t know about it.”

“An obvious concern,” Professor Quirrell said. “There is a simple
answer, and I would have enforced it upon you in any case. Ssnakess
can’t lie. And since I have a tremendous distaste for stupidity, I
suggest you do not say anything like ‘What do you mean?’ You are smarter
than that, and I do not have time for such conversations as ordinary
people inflict on one another.”

Harry swallowed. Snakes can’t lie. “Two pluss two equalss four.” Harry
had tried to say that two plus two equalled three, and the word four had
slipped out instead.

“Good. When Salazar Slytherin invoked the Parselmouth curse upon himself
and all his children, his true plan was to ensure his descendants could
trust one another’s words, whatever plots they wove against outsiders.”
Professor Quirrell had adopted his lecturing pose from Battle Magic,
like someone putting on a well-worn mask, but the gun remained pointed
in his hand. “Occlumency cannot fool the Parselmouth curse as it can
fool Veritaserum, and you may put that to the trial also. Now listen
well. Come with me, promisse your besst aid in getting Sstone, and I
sshall leave thesse children behind unharmed. Hosstagess are real,
hundredss of sstudentss die tonight unlesss I sstop eventss already sset
in motion. Will sspare hosstagess if I obtain Sstone ssuccesssfully. And
mark also this, mark it well: I cannot be truly sslain by any power
known to me, and lossing Sstone will not sstop me from returning, nor
sspare you or yourss my wrath. Any impetuous act you are contemplating
cannot win the game for you, boy. I do credit your ability to annoy me,
and suggest you avoid doing so.”

“You said,” Harry’s voice was strange in his own ears, “that the
Philosopher’s Stone had different powers from what legend said. You said
that to me in Parseltongue. Tell me what the Stone really does, before I
agree to help you get it.” If it was something along the lines of
gaining total power over the universe, then nothing was worth an
incrementally greater chance of Lord Voldemort getting the Stone.

“Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, and smiled. “You are thinking. That is
better, and as a reward I shall offer you a further incentive for
cooperation. Eternal life and youth, the creation of gold and silver.
Suppose these are true benefits of holding the Stone. Tell me, boy. What
is the Stone’s power?”

It might have been the adrenaline still in him, being actually useful
for his brain for once. It might have been the power of being told that
an answer existed, and that the evidence wasn’t a lie. “It can make
Transfigurations permanent.”

Then Harry stopped, as he heard what his own mouth had just said.

“Correct,” said Professor Quirrell. “Thus, whoever holds the
Philosopher’s Stone is able to perform human Transfiguration.”

Harry’s torn mind was knocked about yet again, as he realized what
further incentive would be offered him.

“You stole Miss Granger’s remains and Transfigured them into some
innocuous-appearing target,” said Professor Quirrell. “A Transfigured
target that you must keep somewhere about your own person, in order to
sustain the Transfiguration. Ah, I see your eyes going to that ring upon
your hand, but of course Miss Granger would not be the little jewel set
into the ring, would it? That would be too obvious. No, I expect you
Transfigured Granger’s remains into the ring itself, letting the aura of
the Transfigured jewel mask the magic in the Transfigured ring.”

“Yes,” Harry said, forcing out the word. It was a lie, for once, and
Harry’s glance had been deliberate. Harry had expected someone to
challenge him on the steel ring, he’d tried to provoke that challenge so
he could prove to be innocent yet again, though nobody had taken him up
on it—maybe Dumbledore had just sensed that the steel by itself wasn’t
magical.

“Fine and good,” said Professor Quirrell. “Now come with me, help me to
obtain the Stone, and I will resurrect Hermione Granger on your behalf.
Her death has had unfortunate effects on you, and I would not mind
undoing them. That, as I understand you, is your greatest desire. I have
done you many kindnesses, and I would not mind doing you this one more.”
A blank-eyed Professor Sprout had now risen from the ground and was
pointing her own wand at Harry. “Help me obtain Sstone of
Transsfiguration, and I sshall try my hardesst to ressurrect your
girl-child friend to true and lassting life. That ssaid, boy, I am
sswiftly running out of patience with you, and you sshall not like what
comess nexst.” This last line was hissed out in a voice that conveyed
the impression of a snake rearing its head to strike.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even then.

Even then, with all the world upturned, with shock after shock, even
then Harry’s brain did not stop being a brain, or completing the
patterns its circuits had been wired to complete.

Harry knew that this was too good an offer to make to someone at whom
you were pointing a gun.

Unless you desperately needed their help to get the Philosopher’s Stone
out of the magic mirror.

And there wasn’t any time left to plan, only the thought that, if
Professor Quirrell really was going this far to get his help—what Harry
wanted was to demand Professor Quirrell promise not to kill anyone in
the future in exchange for his help now, but Harry had a strong sense
that Professor Quirrell would reply ‘Don’t be ridiculous’ and there
wasn’t time for ordinary conversation. Harry had to guess the highest
safe request in advance—

Professor Quirrell’s eyes narrowed, his lips parted—

“If I help you,” Harry’s mouth said, “I want your promise that you
aren’t planning to turn on me when this is over. I want you to not kill
Professor Snape or anyone else in Hogwarts for at least a week. And I
want answers, the truth about everything that’s been going on this whole
time, everything you know about my nature.”

The pale blue eyes regarded him dispassionately.

I really think we could have thought of something better to ask for than
that, said Harry’s Slytherin side. But I suppose we were legitimately
out of time, and whatever we need to do next, answers will help.

Harry wasn’t listening to that voice right now. Cold chills were still
going down his spine from hearing the words that had just come out of
his lips, addressed to the man with the gun.

“That is your condition for helping me to obtain the Stone?” said
Professor Quirrell.

Harry nodded, unable to form words.

“Agreed,” hissed Professor Quirrell. “Help me, and you sshall have
ansswerss to your quesstionss, sso long ass they are about passt
eventss, and not my planss for the future. I do not intend to raisse my
hand or magic againsst you in future, sso long ass you do not raisse
your hand or magic againsst me. Sshall kill none within sschool groundss
for a week, unlesss I musst. Now promisse that you will not attempt to
warn againsst me or esscape. Promisse to put forth your own besst
effortss toward helping me to obtain the Sstone. And your girl-child
friend sshall be revived by me, to true life and health; nor sshall me
or mine ever sseek to harm her.” A twisted smile. “Promisse, boy, and
the bargain will be sstruck.”

“I promise,” whispered Harry.

WHAT? screamed other parts of his mind.

Um, he’s still pointing a gun at us, pointed out Slytherin. We don’t
actually have a choice, we’re just getting as much mileage out of this
as possible.

You bastard, said Hufflepuff. Do you think this is what Hermione would
have wanted? This is Lord Voldemort we’re talking about, do we even know
how many people he’s killed, and will kill?

I deny that we are compromising with Lord Voldemort for Hermione’s sake,
said Slytherin. Since there is, in fact, a gun and we can’t otherwise
stop him. Also, Mum and Dad would want us to just go along and stay
safe.

Professor Quirrell regarded him steadily. “Repeat the full promise in
Parseltongue, boy.”

“I sshall help you obtain the Sstone… I cannot promisse I will usse my
besst effortss, my heart will not be in it, I fear. I intend to try.
Sshall not do anything I think will annoy you to no good end. Sshall
call no help if I exspect them to be killed by you or for hosstagess to
die. I’m ssorry, teacher, but it iss besst I can do.” Harry’s mind was
settling, composing itself, as the decision was made. He would stay with
Professor Quirrell, go with him to get the Stone, save the student
hostages, and… and… and Harry didn’t know, except that he’d go on
thinking.

“You actually are sorry about that?” Professor Quirrell looked amused.
“I suppose it shall have to do. Then keep two other things in mind: I
have plan to sstop even sschoolmasster, if he appearss before uss. And
also this: I will occasionally ask you to say in Parseltongue whether
you have betrayed me. The bargain iss sstruck.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After that, Professor Sprout picked up Harry’s wand, and wrapped it in
shimmering cloth; then she placed it on the floor, and again pointed her
wand at Harry. Only then did Professor Quirrell lower his gun, which
seemed to disappear into his hand, and pick up Harry’s wrapped wand,
tucking it into his robes.

The True Cloak of Invisibility was removed from the sleeping form of
Lesath Lestrange, and Professor Quirrell took the Cloak, as well as
Harry’s pouch and Time-Turner.

Then Professor Quirrell cast a mass Obliviation followed by the mass
version of the False Memory Charm, the one that just had the subject
fill in the blanks using their own suggestibility, on all the students
present. Afterwards Professor Sprout floated away the sleeping children,
now wearing an expression that seemed annoyed and preoccupied, as if
they’d been in some Herbology accident.

Professor Quirrell then turned back to where the Potions Master lay
sprawled, bent over and placed his wand on Professor Snape’s forehead.
“Alienis nervus mobile lignum.”

The Defence Professor stepped back, and began to move his left fingers
in the air as though manipulating a puppet on strings.

Professor Snape pushed himself up from the ground by smooth motions, and
stood once more before the corridor door.

“Alohomora,” Professor Quirrell said, pointing his wand at the forbidden
door. The Defence Professor looked rather amused. “Would you do the
honours, boy?”

Harry swallowed. He was once again having second thoughts, and third
thoughts.

It was strange how you could do something even while knowing it was the
wrong thing, not the selfish thing but the wrong thing to do on some
deeper level.

But the man behind him was holding the gun; it had once more appeared in
his hand at Harry’s hesitation.

Harry laid his hand on the door-knocker, and took several deep breaths,
again composing his mind as best he could. Go through with it, don’t get
shot, don’t let the hostages die, be there to optimize events, be there
to watch for opportunities and stay capable of taking them. It wasn’t a
good choice, but all the other ones seemed worse.

Harry pushed open the forbidden door, and stepped through.

106. The Truth, Part III

AFTER a single step into Dumbledore’s forbidden chamber, Harry shrieked
and jumped back and collided with Professor Snape, sending the two of
them down in a heap.

Professor Snape picked himself up and resumed standing in front of the
door. His head tracked to look at Harry. “I am guarding this door at the
Headmaster’s orders,” said Professor Snape in his usual sardonic tones.
“Be off with you at once, or I shall deduct House Points.”

This was bone-chillingly creepy, but Harry’s attention was occupied by
the gigantic three-headed dog which had lunged forward, only to be
stopped metres from Harry by the chains upon its three collars.

“That—that—that—” Harry said.

“Yes,” Professor Quirrell said from some way behind him, “that is indeed
the usual occupant of that chamber, which is off-limits to all students,
especially first-years.”

“That’s not safe even by wizard standards!” Within the chamber, the
enormous black beast gave a multi-voiced bellow, flecks of white saliva
flying from three fanged mouths.

Professor Quirrell sighed. “It is enchanted not to eat students, just
spit them back out through the door. Now, boy, how would you recommend
that we deal with this dangerous creature?”

“Uh,” Harry stuttered, trying to think over the continued roaring of the
chamber’s guardian. “Uh. If it’s like the Cerberus from the Muggle
legend of Orpheus and Eurydice, then we have to sing it to sleep so we
can pass—”

“Avada Kedavra.”

The three-headed beast fell over.

Harry looked back at Professor Quirrell, who was giving him a look of
extreme disappointment, as if to ask whether Harry had attended any of
his classes, ever.

“I sort of assumed,” Harry said, still trying to catch his breath, “that
going through this challenge in any way except the one used by
first-years, might perhaps trigger an alarm.”

“That is a lie, boy, you simply did not remember your lessons when you
faced the occasion in true life. As for alarms, I have spent months
befuddling all the wards and tripsigns upon these chambers.”

“Then why did you send me in first, exactly?”

Professor Quirrell just smiled. It looked significantly more evil than
usual.

“Never mind,” Harry said, and walked slowly into the chamber, his limbs
still shaking.

The chamber was all of stone, illuminated by a pale blue light that
shone from arched nooks carved into the wall; as if the light of a grey
sky were passing through windows, though there were no windows. At the
far end of the chamber was a wooden trapdoor upon the floor, with a
single ring attached. In the middle of the chamber lay a gigantic dead
dog with three lifeless heads.

Harry turned toward one of the arched nooks and looked inside it. There
was nothing there but the sourceless blue glow, so he walked over and
looked in the next one, also scrutinizing the wall as he passed.

“What,” said Professor Quirrell, “are you doing?”

“Searching the room,” Harry said. “There could be a clue, or an
inscription, or a key we’ll need later, or something—”

“Are you serious, or are you deliberately trying to slow us down? Answer
in Parseltongue.”

Harry looked back. “Wass sseriouss,” hissed Harry. “Would have done
ssame if came by mysself.”

Professor Quirrell briefly massaged his forehead. “I confess,” he said,
“that your approach would serve you well in, say, exploring the tomb of
Amon-Set, so I will not quite call you an idiot, but still. The false
puzzle, the outer form of the challenge, is a game meant for
first-years. We simply go down through the trapdoor.”

Beneath the trapdoor was a gigantic plant, something like an enormous
dieffenbachia with wide leaves emerging from the central stem like a
spiral staircase, but darker-coloured than a normal dieffenbachia, with
tendril-like vines emerging from the central stem and hanging down. The
base spread out wide with bigger leaves and tendrils, as though
promising to cushion anyone’s fall. Beneath was another stone chamber
like the first, with the same nooks like false arched windows, emitting
the same grey-blue light.

“The obvious thought is to fly down on the broomstick in my pouch, or
toss something heavy to see if those tendrils are traps,” Harry said,
peering down. “But I’m guessing you’ll say that we just walk down the
leaves.” They certainly looked like they were meant to be a spiral
staircase.

“After you,” said Professor Quirrell.

Harry carefully put a foot down on a leaf and found that it indeed
supported his weight. Then Harry took a last look around the room before
departing, to see if there was anything worth noticing.

The enormous dead dog called enough attention to itself that it was hard
to focus on anything else.

“Professor Quirrell,” Harry said, omitting the phrase your approach to
dealing with obstacles has certain drawbacks, “what if somebody looks in
the door and sees that the Cerberus is dead?”

“Then they have probably already noticed something wrong with Snape,”
said Professor Quirrell. “But since you insist…” The Defence Professor
walked over to the three-headed corpse and placed his wand against it.
He began a Latin-sounding incantation that was accompanied by a sense of
rising apprehension, the Boy-Who-Lived feeling the Dark Lord’s power as
he always had.

The last word spoken was “Inferius” and it was accompanied by a final
surge of STOP, DON’T.

And the three-headed dog rose to a stand, its six eyes dull and blank,
turning to watch the door once more.

Harry stared at the huge Inferius with a horrible sinking sensation in
his stomach, the third-worst feeling he’d ever felt in his life.

He knew then that he’d seen and sensed this procedure before, only
without the spoken Latin.

The centaur who’d confronted him in the Forbidden Forest was dead. The
Defence Professor had hit it with a real Avada Kedavra, not a fake one.

Somewhere in the back of his mind, Harry had thought that if he could
just get Hermione back then he could return to the code of nobody dying,
the ethic of Batman. Most people went through their whole lives without
anyone getting killed on whatever adventures they had.

And that was not to be.

He hadn’t even noticed, the day he lost his last chance to win. Even if
Hermione was resurrected, now, Harry wouldn’t have come through the
whole mess without anyone getting killed.

He hadn’t even learned the centaur’s name.

Harry said nothing aloud. The Defence Professor would either confirm the
accusation in Parseltongue or lie in plain speech, and either way the
Defence Professor would have more reason to suspect Harry’s next
actions. But Harry knew that—although he didn’t know how he would stop
Professor Quirrell, although he didn’t dare any positive act of
betrayal, maybe not even making the decision, until it was almost time
to win—there would never be an amicable settlement between him and Lord
Voldemort, for those two different spirits could not exist in the same
world.

And it was as if that resolution, that knowledge of opposition, invoked
a strength from what Harry had thought of as his dark side. Harry had
stopped trying to call deliberately on his dark side after the day he’d
killed the troll. But his dark side had never been something separate
from him. It had been something remembered from Tom Riddle. Harry didn’t
know how that had happened, but taking the assumption and running with
it, whatever echoes of cognitive skill were in his dark side should be
there for him to use. Not as a separate mode, as Harry had
conceptualized at first, but just as neural patterns with a strong
tendency to chain into one another since they had once formed part of a
connected whole.

This unfortunately did not change that Professor Quirrell had the same
skills with far more life experience backing them up, and also had the
gun.

Harry turned, and set foot on the giant plant, and began to walk down
the spiral staircase provided by the leaves. It had taken Harry too long
this time, but he’d recovered himself to some degree, despite the grief
still weighing him down like thick water. It wasn’t a cold steel rod in
his spine, but it was something straight and solid nonetheless. He was
going to play this through, see Hermione returned to life first, and
then, somehow, stop Professor Quirrell. Or stop Professor Quirrell first
and then get the Stone himself. There had to be something, some
possibility, some opportunity that would present itself, some way to
stop Voldemort and return Hermione to life…

Harry continued his descent.

Behind him, the three-headed dog waited, guarding the gate.

107. The Truth, Part IV

THE spiralling leaves of the gigantic dieffenbachia felt like forest
loam beneath Harry’s shoes, not as unyielding as concrete, but
supporting his weight. Harry kept a wary eye on the tendrils, but they
remained passive.

When Harry reached the bottom of the leafy spiral staircase, the
tendrils suddenly whipped out and grasped Harry’s arms and legs.

After a brief struggle, Harry allowed himself to go limp.

“Interesting,” said Professor Quirrell, as he floated down from above,
not touching any of the plant’s leaves or tendrils. “I notice that you
seem to have no trouble losing to a plant.”

Harry looked more closely at the Defence Professor, seeing him now
without the lens of panic. Professor Quirrell was upright and moving,
flying without apparent difficulty; the sense of doom about him was
strong. But his eyes were still sunken in the skull, his arms thin and
wasted. The sickness had not been a bluff, and the obvious hypothesis
was that the Defence Professor had recently killed another unicorn to
temporarily regain some strength.

And the Defence Professor was also speaking like the mask of Professor
Quirrell, not like Lord Voldemort, which might not be a bad thing from
Harry’s perspective. Harry didn’t know why—unless it was that the
Defence Professor still needed him for something—but it certainly seemed
to be in Harry’s own interests to play along.

“You specifically let me walk into this trap, Professor,” Harry
answered, just the way he’d have spoken to Professor Quirrell. Roles,
masks, remind him of how it was between us… “On my own, I’d have used my
broomstick.”

“Perhaps. How would an ordinary first-year solve this challenge? If they
had their wand, that is.” The plant was now reaching tendrils out toward
Professor Quirrell, but Professor Quirrell was hovering just out of
their reach.

Harry had now remembered Professor Sprout talking about a Devil’s Snare
plant, which the Herbology textbook had said liked cool, dark places
like caves—though how that could be true of a leafy plant was anyone’s
guess. “At a guess, I’d say this is a Devil’s Snare plant and it might
retreat from light or heat. So maybe a first-year could use Lumos? Today
I’d use Inflammare, but I didn’t learn that spell until May.”

A twirl of the Defence Professor’s wand, and a pattern of sprays of
liquid shot out from it, striking the plant near the bases of its
tendrils, hitting with a quiet splat and then a quiet hissing. All the
tendrils touching Harry frantically shot back and began to beat at the
growing wounds appearing on the plant’s skin, as if trying to remove the
pain-stimulus; something about the plant gave the impression that it was
screaming soundlessly.

Professor Quirrell finished drifting downward. “Now it is afraid of
light, heat, acid, and me.”

Harry stepped off the final leaves onto the floor, after a careful
glance at his robes and then the floor to make sure that none of the
acid had splashed anywhere. Harry had begun to suspect that Professor
Quirrell was trying to make some sort of point, but Harry did not know
what that point might be. “I thought we were on a mission, Professor. I
can’t stop you, but is it smart to spend this much time on messing with
me?”

“Oh, we have time,” said Professor Quirrell, sounding amused. “There
would be a great uproar if we were discovered here, guarded by an
Inferius. You did not act like you had heard of such an uproar at your
Quidditch match, before you arrived in this time and spoke to Snape as
you did.”

A slight chill came over Harry, as he comprehended this. Anything he did
to beat Professor Quirrell would have to not disrupt the school, or at
least the Quidditch game, because it hadn’t disrupted the Quidditch
game. Even if enough forces could be called in to subdue Lord Voldemort,
it might not be easy to do it without Professor McGonagall or Professor
Flitwick or anyone else at the Quidditch game noticing…

Fighting a smart enemy was hard.

And even so… even so it seemed to Harry that if he stood in Professor
Quirrell’s shoes, he would not be having leisurely conversations and
playing mind games. Professor Quirrell was gaining something by taking
his time here. But what? Was there some other process that had to run to
completion?

“By the by, have you betrayed me yet?” said Professor Quirrell.

“Have not betrayed you yet,” Harry hissed.

The Defence Professor gestured pointedly with the gun he was now holding
in his left hand, and Harry walked ahead to the great wooden door at the
end of the room, and opened it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The next chamber was smaller in diameter, with a higher ceiling. The
light shining out of the arched alcoves was white, instead of blue.

Around them whizzed hundreds of winged keys, beating frantically through
the air. After watching for a few seconds, it became clear that only a
single key was the golden colour of a Snitch—though it was moving slower
than a Snitch in a real Quidditch game.

On the other end of the room was a door containing a large, prominent
keyhole.

Against the left wall leaned a broomstick, the school’s workhorse
Cleansweep Seven.

“Professor,” Harry said, staring up at the clouds and flocks of whizzing
keys, “you said you would answer my questions. What exactly is all this
about? If you think you’ve secured a door so that it won’t open without
a key, you keep the key in a safe place and only give a copy to
authorized entrants. You don’t give the key wings and then leave a
broomstick propped against the wall. So what the heck are we doing in
here and what is going on? It’s an obvious guess that the magic mirror
is the only real factor guarding the Stone, but why the rest of this—and
why encourage first-years to come here?”

“I am truly not sure,” said the Defence Professor. He had entered the
room and taken up station well to Harry’s right, maintaining the
distance between them. “But I shall answer, as I said I would.
Dumbledore’s way is to do a dozen things which seem mad, and then only
eight of them, or perhaps nine, conceal an inner meaning. My guess is
that Dumbledore intends to make it seem like I am invited to send a
student as my proxy. Precisely so that Lord Voldemort, as Dumbledore
conceives of him, is less tempted to think himself clever by doing so.
Imagine Dumbledore first considering the issue of how to ward the Stone.
Imagine Dumbledore considering whether to set true dangers to guard the
Mirror. Imagine him imagining some young student blundering through
those dangers at my behest. I think that is what Dumbledore is trying to
avoid, by making it seem as though that strategy is invited, and so not
cunning. Unless, of course, I have misunderstood what Dumbledore thinks
Lord Voldemort will think.” Professor Quirrell grinned, and it looked
just as natural, on him, as any grin he’d shown Harry before. “Plotting
does not come naturally to Dumbledore, but he tries because he must. To
that task Dumbledore brings intelligence, dedication, the ability to
learn from his mistakes, and an utter lack of native talent. He is
marvellously hard to predict for that reason alone.”

Harry turned away, looking at the door on the opposite side of the room.
It wasn’t a game to him, Professor. “My guess is that the intended
solution for first-years is to ignore the broomstick and use Wingardium
Leviosa to grab the key, since this isn’t a Quidditch game and there are
no rules forbidding that. So what absurdly overpowered spell are you
going to unleash on this one, then?”

There was a brief silence but for the whizzing of keys.

Harry took several steps away from Professor Quirrell. “I probably
shouldn’t have said that, should I.”

“Oh, no,” Professor Quirrell said. “I think that is a quite reasonable
thing to say to the most powerful Dark Wizard in the world when he is
standing not a dozen paces from you.”

Professor Quirrell put his wand back into the sleeve of his other hand,
the hand that sometimes held the gun.

Then the Defence Professor reached into his mouth and took out what
appeared to be a tooth. He tossed the false tooth high in the air, and
when it came down, it had transformed into a wand that sparked a strange
sense of recognition in Harry’s mind, as though some part of him
recognized that wand as being… part of him….

Thirteen and a half inches, yew, with a core of phœnix feather. Harry
had memorized the information when the wand-maker Olli-something had
given it, because it had seemed like it might be Plot-Relevant. The
event, and the thinking that had underlain it, both felt a lifetime
distant.

The Defence Professor raised that wand, and traced in the air a flaming
rune that was all jagged edges and malevolence; Harry took another
instinctive step back. Then Professor Quirrell spoke. “Az-reth. Az-reth.
Az-reth.”

The flaming rune began pouring out fire that was… twisted, as though the
jagged edges of the rune had become the nature of the fire itself. The
fire was blazing crimson, shaded further red than blood, glowing as
searingly intense as an arc-welder. That brilliance in that shade seemed
wrong in its own right, like nothing shaded so far red should give off
that much light; and the searing crimson was shot through with veins of
black that seemed to suck the light from the fire. Within the blackened
fire, outlined in the interplay of crimson and darkness, animal shapes
twisted wildly from one predator to another, cobra to hyena to scorpion.

“Az-reth. Az-reth. Az-reth.” When Professor Quirrell had repeated the
word six times, a small cauldron-full of black–crimson fire had poured
out.

The cursed fire slowed in its changes as Professor Quirrell locked eyes
upon it, taking on a single form, the form of a blackened blood-burning
phœnix.

And something told Harry with a terrible certainty that if that black
burning phœnix met Fawkes, the true phœnix would die and never be
reborn.

Professor Quirrell made a single gesture with his wand, and the
blackened fire went soaring across the room. It met the door and its
keyhole, and with a single sweep of crimson-burning wings, most of the
door and part of the archway was consumed. Then the tainted crimson
blaze swept on.

Harry had only a glance through the hole to see huge statues just
beginning to raise swords and clubs, when the blackened fire came among
them, and they cracked and burned.

When it ended, the blackened-fire phœnix swept back in through the hole,
and hovered above Professor Quirrell’s left shoulder, the sun-intense
crimson claws staying an inch from his robes.

“Go on ahead,” said Professor Quirrell. “It’s safe now.”

Harry walked forward, needing to invoke his dark side’s cognitive
patterns in order to maintain calm enough to do it. Harry stepped over
the glowing edges of the remaining part of the door, and gazed at a
chessboard of ruined huge chess pieces. The alternating tiles of black
and white marble on the floor started five metres after the ruined
doorway, and extended from wall to wall, but stopped five metres short
of the next door on the opposite side of the room. The ceiling was
significantly higher than any of the statues should have been able to
reach.

“I would guess,” Harry said, and his dark side’s cognitive patterns kept
his voice calm, “that the intended solution is to fly over the statues
using the broomstick from the previous room, since it wasn’t actually
needed to get the key?”

From behind, Professor Quirrell laughed, and it was Lord Voldemort’s
laugh. “Proceed,” said a voice grown colder and higher. “Go to the next
room. I wish to see what you will make of what is there.”

Arranged by Dumbledore for first-years, Harry reminded himself, it will
be safe, and he walked across the ruined chessboard, laid his hand upon
that door’s handle, and pushed it inward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Half a second later, Harry slammed the door and leapt back.

It took Harry several seconds to master his breathing, and master
himself. From behind the door came continued loud bellows, and great
slams as of a rock club pounding the floor.

“I suppose,” Harry said in a voice grown cold as well, “that since
Dumbledore would hardly put a real mountain troll in there, the next
challenge is an illusion of my worst memories. Like a Dementor, with the
memory projected into the outside world. Very amusing, Professor.”

Professor Quirrell advanced himself toward the door, and Harry stepped
well aside. Besides the sense of doom that was now strong about the
Professor, Harry’s dark side or just plain instinct was advising him not
to get anywhere near that black-crimson fire hovering above Professor
Quirrell’s shoulder.

Professor Quirrell swung open the door, and looked in. “Hm,” Professor
Quirrell said. “Just the troll, as you say. Ah, well. I had hoped to
learn something about you more interesting than that. What lies within
is a Kokorhekkus, also known as the common boggart.”

“A boggart? What does that—no, I suppose I know what it does.”

“A boggart,” Professor Quirrell said, and now his voice was again that
of a Hogwarts Professor lecturing, “gravitates to dark enclosures that
are rarely opened, such as a neglected cupboard in the attic. It seeks
to be left alone, and it will manifest in whatever form it thinks will
scare you away.”

“Scare me away?” Harry said. “I killed the troll.”

“You leapt backward out of the room without thinking. A boggart seeks
out the instinctive flinch, not the reasoned threat. Else it would have
selected something more believable. In any case, the standard
counter-Charm for a boggart is, of course, Fiendfyre.” Professor
Quirrell gestured, and the blackened fire leapt off his shoulder and
poured through the doorway.

From within the room there was a single squeak, and then nothing.

They advanced into the boggart’s former room, Professor Quirrell going
first this time. With the seeming mountain troll gone, the room was just
another huge chamber lit by sconces of cold blue light.

Professor Quirrell’s gaze seemed distant, thoughtful. He crossed the
room without waiting for Harry, and swung open the door on the opposite
wall of his own accord.

Harry followed after, and not closely.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The next chamber contained a cauldron, a rack of bottled ingredients,
chopping boards, stirring sticks, and the other apparatus of Potions.
The light coming from the arched alcoves was white instead of blue,
presumably because colour vision was important to Potions-brewing.
Professor Quirrell was already standing next to the brewing apparatus,
scrutinizing a long parchment he had picked up. The door to the next
chamber was guarded by a curtain of purple fire that would have looked a
lot more threatening, if it hadn’t seemed pale and weak by comparison to
the blackened flame hovering over Professor Quirrell’s shoulder.

Harry’s suspension of disbelief had already checked out on holiday at
this point, so he didn’t say anything about how real-world security
systems had the goal of distinguishing authorized from unauthorized
personnel, which meant issuing challenges that behaved differently
around people who were or weren’t supposed to be there. For example, a
good security challenge would be testing whether the entrant knew a lock
combination that only authorized people had been told, and a bad
security challenge would be testing whether the entrant could brew a
potion according to written instructions that had been helpfully
included.

Professor Quirrell tossed the parchment toward Harry, and it fluttered
to the ground between them. “What do you make of this?” said Professor
Quirrell, who then stepped back so that Harry could come forward and
pick up the parchment.

“Nope,” Harry said after skimming the parchment. “Testing whether the
entrant can solve a ridiculously straightforward logic puzzle about the
order of the ingredients is still not a challenge that behaves
differently for authorized and unauthorized personnel. It doesn’t matter
if you use a more interesting logic puzzle about three idols or a line
of people wearing coloured hats, you’re still completely missing the
point.”

“Look at the other side,” said Professor Quirrell.

Harry turned over the two-foot parchment.

On the other side, written in tiny letters, was the longest list of
brewing instructions Harry had ever seen. “What on Earth—”

“A potion of effulgence, to quench the purple fire,” Professor Quirrell
said. “It is made by adding the same ingredients, over and over again,
in slightly different ways. Imagine some eager young group of
first-years, passing all the other chambers, thinking they are just
about to reach the magic mirror, and then encountering this task. This
room is the handiwork of the Potions Master indeed.”

Harry glanced pointedly at the blackfire shape on Professor Quirrell’s
shoulder. “Fire can’t beat fire?”

“It can,” said Professor Quirrell. “I am not sure it should. Suppose
this room is trapped?”

Harry did not want to be stuck brewing this potion for laughs, or for
whatever other reason Professor Quirrell was taking them through these
chambers so slowly. The potions recipe had thirty-five separate
occasions for adding bellflowers, fourteen times to add ‘a lock of
bright hair’… “Maybe the potion gives off a lethal gas that is fatal to
adult wizards but not children. Or any of a hundred other deadly tricks,
if we’re suddenly being serious. Are we being serious?”

“This room is the handiwork of Severus Snape,” Professor Quirrell said,
once more looking thoughtful. “Snape is not a bystander in this game,
not quite. He lacks Dumbledore’s intelligence, but possesses the killing
intent that Dumbledore never had.”

“Well, whatever’s going on here, it doesn’t actually keep out children,”
Harry observed. “Lots of first-years made it through. And if you can
somehow keep out everyone except children, then that, from Dumbledore’s
perspective, forces Lord Voldemort to possess a child to enter. I don’t
see the point, given their goals.”

“Indeed,” Professor Quirrell said, rubbing the bridge of his nose. “But
see, boy, this room lacks the triggers and tripsigns that are upon the
others. There are no subtle wards to be defeated. It is as if I am
invited to bypass the Potion and simply enter—but Snape knows that Lord
Voldemort will perceive this. If in fact there was a trap laid for
anyone who did not brew the potion, then it would be wiser to lay wards,
and give no sign that this room was different from the others.”

Harry listened, frowning in concentration. “So… the only point of
leaving off the detection webs is to make you not bulldoze this room.”

“I expect Snape expects me to deduce that as well,” the Defence
Professor said. “And past that point I cannot predict at what level he
thinks I will play. I am patient, and I have given myself plenty of time
for this endeavour. But Snape does not know me, he only knows Lord
Voldemort. He has sometimes seen Lord Voldemort shriek in frustration,
and act on impulses that appear counterproductive. Consider this matter
from Snape’s perspective: it is the Potions Master of Hogwarts telling
Lord Voldemort to be patient and follow instructions if he wants to
enter, as though Lord Voldemort were a mere schoolboy. I would find it
easy to comply, smiling the while, and take my vengeance later. But
Snape does not know that Lord Voldemort finds it easy to think this
way.” Professor Quirrell looked at Harry. “Boy, you saw me floating in
the air by the Devil’s Snare, did you not?”

Harry nodded. Then he noticed his confusion. “My Charms textbook says
that it’s impossible for wizards to levitate themselves.”

“Yes,” said Professor Quirrell, “that is what it says in your Charms
textbook. No wizard may levitate themselves, or any object supporting
their own weight; it is like trying to lift yourself up by your own
bootstraps. Yet Lord Voldemort alone can fly—how? Answer as quickly as
you can.”

If the question was answerable by a first-year student—“You had someone
else cast broomstick enchantments on your underwear, then you Obliviated
them.”

“Not quite,” said Professor Quirrell. “The broomstick enchantments
require a long narrow shape, which must be solid. Cloth will not do.”

Harry’s eyebrows furrowed. “How long does the shape have to be? Can you
attach some short broomstick rods to a fabric harness, and fly using
those?”

“Indeed, at first I strapped enchanted rods to my arms and legs, but
that was only to teach myself a new mode of flight.” Professor Quirrell
drew back the sleeve of his robes, revealing the bare arm. “As you can
see, I have nothing up my sleeve right now.”

Harry absorbed this further constraint. “You had someone cast broomstick
enchantments on your bones?”

Professor Quirrell sighed. “And that was one of Voldemort’s most feared
feats, or so I am told. After all these years, and some amount of
reluctant Legilimency, I still do not truly comprehend what is wrong
with ordinary people… But you are not one of them. It is time for you to
begin contributing to this expedition. You have known Severus Snape more
recently than I. Tell me your own analysis of this room.”

Harry hesitated, trying to look thoughtful.

“I will mention,” said Professor Quirrell, as the blackened-fire-phœnix
on his shoulder seemed to extend its head and glare at Harry, “that if
you knowingly allow me to fail, I will call it betrayal. I remind you
that the Stone is key to Miss Granger’s resurrection, and that I hold
hostage the lives of hundreds of students.”

“I remember,” Harry said, and on the heels of this Harry’s wonderful
inventive brain came up with a thought.

Harry wasn’t sure if he should say it.

The silence stretched.

“Have you thought of anything yet?” said Professor Quirrell. “Answer in
Parseltongue.”

No, this was not going to be easy, not against a smart opponent who
could force you to tell the literal truth at any time. “Severus, at
least the modern-day Severus, respects your intelligence a great deal,”
Harry said instead. “I think… I think he might expect Voldemort to
believe that Severus wouldn’t believe that Voldemort could pass his test
of patience, but Severus would expect Voldemort to pass it.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “That is a plausible theory. Do you believe
it yourself? Answer in Parseltongue.”

“Yess,” Harry hissed. It might not be safe to withhold information, not
even thoughts and ideas… “Therefore, the point of this room is to delay
Lord Voldemort for an hour. And if I wanted to kill you, believing what
Dumbledore believes, the obvious thing to try would be a Dementor’s
Kiss. I mean, they think you’re a disembodied soul—are you, by the way?”

Professor Quirrell was still. “Dumbledore would not think of that
method,” the Defence Professor said after a time. “But Severus might.”
Professor Quirrell began to tap a finger against his cheek, his gaze
distant. “You have power over Dementors, boy, can you tell me if there
are any nearby?”

Harry closed his eyes. If there were voids in the world, he could not
feel them. “None that I can sense.”

“Answer in Parseltongue.”

“Do not ssensse life-eaterss.”

“But you were being honest with me when you suggested the possibility?
You intended no clever trickery?”

“Wass honesst. Not trick.”

“Perhaps there is some means by which Dementors might be concealed,
being told to leap out and eat a possessing soul if they see one…”
Professor Quirrell was still tapping his cheek. “It is not impossible
that I would qualify. Or it can be told to eat anyone who passes through
this room too quickly, or anyone who is not a child. Bearing in mind
that I hold Hermione and hundreds of other students hostage over you,
would you use your power over Dementors to defend me, if a Dementor
unmasked itself? Answer in Parseltongue.”

“Don’t know,” Harry hissed.

“Life-eaterss cannot desstroy me, I think,” hissed Professor Quirrell.
“And I will ssimply abandon thiss body if they approach too closse.
Sshall return sswiftly thiss time, and then there will be no sstopping
me. Will torture your parentss for yearss, to punissh you for baulking
me. Hundredss of hosstage sstudentss die, including thosse you call
friendss. Now I assk again. Will you usse power over life-eaterss to
protect me, if life-eaterss come?”

“Yess,” Harry whispered. The sadness and horror that Harry had pushed
down flared up again, and his dark side had no stored patterns for
handling the emotions. Why, Professsor Quirrell, why are you like thiss…

Professor Quirrell smiled. “That reminds me. Have you betrayed me yet?”

“Have not betrayed you yet.”

Professor Quirrell went over to the Potions equipment, and began
chopping a root one-handed, the knife moving almost invisibly fast and
with no apparent effort. The Fiendfyre phœnix drifted over to the
opposite corner of the room and waited there. “All matters considered in
their uncertainty, it seems wiser to expend the time to pass this room
as a first-year would,” said the Defence Professor. “We may as well talk
while we are waiting. You had questions, boy? I said that I would answer
them, so ask.”

108. The Truth, Part V:Answers and Riddles

THE Defence Professor had set up a cauldron, floating it into place with
a wave of his wand, another wave starting a fire beneath it. A brief
circling of the Defence Professor’s finger had set in motion a
long-handled spoon, and it had continued stirring the cauldron without
being held. Now the Defence Professor was measuring out a heap of
flowers from a large jar, what Harry supposed to be bellflowers; the
indigo petals seemed luminous in the white light of the walls, and
curved inward in a way that gave the impression of a desire for privacy.
The first of these flowers had been added to the potion at once, but
then the cauldron had just gone on stirring itself for a while.

The Defence Professor had assumed a position from which he could see
Harry just by turning his head slightly, and Harry knew that he was
within the Defence Professor’s peripheral vision.

In the corner a Fiendfyre phœnix waited, some of the nearby stone
beginning to gloss over as it melted to greater smoothness. The burning
wings shed crimson light that gave everything in the room a tint of
blood, and reflected in scarlet sparks from the glassware.

“Time is wasting,” said Professor Quirrell. “Ask your questions, if you
have them.”

Why, Professor Quirrell, why, why must you be this way, why make
yourself the monster, why Lord Voldemort, I know you might not want the
same things I do, but I can’t imagine what you want that makes this the
best way to get it…

That was what Harry’s brain wanted to know.

What Harry needed to know was… some way out of what was going to happen
next. But the Defence Professor had said that he wouldn’t talk about his
future plans. It was strange enough that the Defence Professor was
willing to talk about anything, that had to contradict one of his Rules…

“I’m thinking,” Harry said aloud.

Professor Quirrell smiled slightly. He was using a pestle to grind the
potion’s first magical ingredient, a glowing red hexagon. “I quite
understand,” said the Defence Professor. “But do not think over-long,
child.”

Goals: Prevent Lord Voldemort from harming people, find a way to kill or
neutralise him, but first get the Stone and resurrect Hermione…

…convince Professor Quirrell to stop this…

Harry swallowed, pushing down the emotion, trying not to let the water
reach his eyes. Tears probably wouldn’t make a good impression on Lord
Voldemort. Professor Quirrell was already frowning, though from the
direction of his gaze he was examining a leaf coloured in vivid shades
of white, green, and purple.

There wasn’t any obvious way to reach any of the goals, not yet. All
Harry could do was ask the questions that seemed most likely to provide
useful information, even if Harry didn’t yet have a plan.

So we just ask about whatever seems most interesting? said Harry’s
Ravenclaw side. I’m up for that.

Shut up, Harry told the voice; and then, on further reflection, decided
that he was no longer pretending it was there.

Four topics came to Harry’s mind as being priorities from the standpoint
of curiosity about important things. Four questions, then, four major
subjects, to try to fit in while this potion was still being brewed.

Four questions…

“I ask my first question,” Harry said. “What really happened on the
night of October 31st, 1981?” Why was that night different from all
other nights… “I would like the entire story, please.”

The question of how and why Lord Voldemort had survived his apparent
death seemed likely to matter for future planning.

“I expected you would ask that,” Professor Quirrell said, dropping a
bellflower and a white glittering stone into the potion. “To begin,
everything I told you about the horcrux spell is true; as you should
realise, since I spoke in Parseltongue.”

Harry nodded.

“Within seconds after you learned the details of the spell, you
perceived the central flaw, and began pondering how the spell might be
improved. Do you think the young Tom Riddle was any different?”

Harry shook his head.

“Well, he was,” said Professor Quirrell. “Whenever I was tempted to
despair of you, I reminded myself how I was an idiot at twice your age.
When I was fifteen I made myself a horcrux as a certain book had shown
me, using the death of Abigail Myrtle beneath the eyes of Slytherin’s
basilisk. I planned to make a new horcrux every year after I left
Hogwarts, and call that my fallback plan if my other hopes of
immortality did not come to fruition. In retrospect, the young Tom
Riddle was grasping straws. The thought of making a better horcrux, of
not being content with the spell I had already learned… this thought did
not come to me until I had grasped the stupidity of ordinary people, and
realised which follies of theirs I had imitated. But in time I learned
the habit that you inherited from me, to ask in every instance how it
might be done better. To be content with the spell I had learned from a
book, when it bore only a faint resemblance to what I truly wanted?
Absurd! And so I set forth to create a better spell.”

“You have true immortality, now?” Harry was aware that, even with
everything else going on, this was a question more important than war
and strategy.

“Indeed,” said Professor Quirrell. He paused in his Potions work and
turned to face Harry fully; there was a look of exultation in the man’s
eyes that Harry had never seen there before. “In all the Darkest Arts I
could find, in all the interdicted secrets to which Slytherin’s Monster
gave me keys, in all the lore remembered among wizardkind, I found only
hints and smatterings of what I needed. So I rewove it and remade it,
and devised a new ritual based on new principles. I kept that ritual
burning in my mind for years, perfecting it in imagination, pondering
its meaning and making fine adjustments, waiting for the intention to
stabilise. At last I dared to invoke my ritual, an invented sacrificial
ritual, based on a principle untested by all known magic. And I lived,
and yet live.” The Defence Professor spoke with quiet triumph, as though
the act itself was so great that no words could ever do it justice. “I
still use the word ‘horcrux’, but only from sentiment. It is a new thing
entirely, the greatest of all my creations.”

“As one of my questions you said you’d answer, I ask how to cast that
spell,” Harry said.

“Denied.” The Defence Professor turned back to his potion, dropping in a
grey-flecked white feather and a bellflower. “I had thought perhaps to
teach you when you were older, for no Tom Riddle would be content
otherwise; but I have changed my mind.”

Memory is a hard thing to recall, sometimes, and Harry had been trying
to remember if Professor Quirrell had dropped any hints about this
subject before. Something about Professor Quirrell’s phrasing sparked a
memory: Perhaps you will be told when you are older…

“There are still physical anchors for your immortality,” Harry said
aloud. “It resembles the old horcrux spell by that much, which is
another reason you still call them horcruxes.” It was dangerous to say
aloud, but Harry needed to know. “If I’m wrong, you can always deny it
in Parseltongue.”

Professor Quirrell was smiling evilly. “Your guesss iss right, boy, for
all the good it doess you.”

Unfortunately, that wasn’t a difficult vulnerability to cover if the
Enemy was smart. Harry wouldn’t ordinarily have made the suggestion,
just in case the Enemy hadn’t thought of it for themselves, but in this
case he’d already made it. “One horcrux dropped into an active volcano,
weighted so it would sink into the Earth’s mantle,” Harry said heavily.
“The same place I thought of dropping the Dementor if I couldn’t destroy
it. And then you asked me where else I would hide something if I didn’t
want anyone to find it ever again. One horcrux buried kilometres down,
in an anonymous cubic metre of the Earth’s crust. One horcrux you
dropped into the Mariana Trench. One horcrux floating high in the
stratosphere, transparent. Even you don’t know where they are, because
you Obliviated the exact details from your memory. And the last horcrux
is the Pioneer 11 plaque that you sneaked into NASA and modified. It’s
where you get your image of the stars, when you cast the spell of
starlight. Fire, earth, water, air, void.” Something of a riddle, the
Defence Professor had called it, and therefore Harry had remembered it.
Something of a Riddle.

“Indeed,” said the Defence Professor. “It did give me something of a
shock when you remembered it that quickly, but I suppose it makes no
difference; all five are beyond my reach, or yours.”

That might not be true, especially if there was some way to trace the
magical connection somehow and determine the location… though presumably
Voldemort would have done his best to obscure it… but what magic had
done, magic might be able to defeat. Pioneer 11 might be far away by
wizard standards, but NASA knew exactly where it was, and it was
probably a lot more reachable if you could use magic to tell the
Tsiolkovsky rocket equation to bugger off…

A sudden note of worry plucked at Harry’s mind. There was no rule saying
the Defence Professor needed to have told the truth about which
interstellar probe he’d horcruxed, and if Harry recalled correctly,
communication and tracking of the Pioneer 10 probe had been lost shortly
after the Jupiter fly-by.

Why wouldn’t Professor Quirrell have just horcruxed them both?

The obvious next thought came to Harry. It was something that ought not
to be suggested, if the Enemy had not thought of it. But it seemed
extremely probable that the Enemy had thought of it.

“Tell me, teacher,” Harry hissed, “would desstroying thosse five
anchorss sslay you?”

“Why do you assk?” hissed the Defence Professor, with a lilt to the hiss
that Parseltongue translated as snakish amusement. “Do you ssusspect
that ansswer iss no?”

Harry couldn’t think of how to answer, though he strongly suspected that
it didn’t matter in any case.

“Your ssusspicion iss right, boy. Desstroying thosse five would not
render me mortal.”

Harry’s throat felt a bit dry again. If the spell had no disastrous cost
associated with it… “How many anchorss did you make?”

“Would not ordinarily ssay, but iss clear you have already guesssed.”
The Defence Professor’s smile widened. “Ansswer iss that I do not know.
Sstopped counting ssomewhere around one hundred and sseven. Ssimply made
a habit of it each time I murdered ssomeone in private.”

Over one hundred murders, in private, before Lord Voldemort had stopped
counting. And even worse news—“Your immortality spell still requires a
human death? Why?”

“Great creation maintainss life and magic within devicess created by
ssacrificing life and magic of otherss.” Again that hissing snake
laughter. “Liked falsse desscription of previouss horcruxs sspell sso
much, sso dissappointed when realissed truth of it, thoughtss of
improved verssion came out in that sshape.”

Harry wasn’t sure why the Defence Professor was giving him all this
vital information, but there had to be a reason, and that was making him
nervous. “So you really are a disembodied spirit possessing Quirinus
Quirrell.”

“Yess. I sshall return sswiftly, if thiss body iss killed. Will be
greatly annoyed, and vengeful. I am telling you this, boy, so that you
do not try anything stupid.”

“I understand,” Harry said. He did his best to organize his thoughts,
remember what he’d meant to ask next, while the Defence Professor turned
his eyes back to the potion. The man’s left hand was dribbling crushed
seashell into the cauldron, while his right hand dropped in another
bellflower. “So what did happen on October 31st? You… tried to turn the
baby Harry Potter into a horcrux, either the new kind or the old kind.
You did it deliberately, because you told Lily Potter,” Harry took a
breath. Now that he knew why the chills were there, he could endure
them. “Very well, I accept the bargain. Yourself to die, and the child
to live. Now drop your wand so that I can murder you.” In retrospect, it
was clear that Harry had remembered that event mainly from Lord
Voldemort’s perspective, and only at the very end had he seen it through
the baby Harry Potter’s eyes. “What did you do? Why did you do it?”

“Trelawney’s prophecy,” Professor Quirrell said. His hand tapped a
bellflower with a strip of copper before dropping it in. “I spent long
days pondering it, after Snape brought the prophecy to me. Prophecies
are never trivial things. And how shall I put this in a way that does
not make you think stupid things… well, I shall say it, and if you are
stupid I shall be annoyed. I was fascinated by the prophecy’s assertion
that someone would be my equal, because it might mean that person could
hold up the other end of an intelligent conversation. After fifty years
of being surrounded by gibbering stupidity, I no longer cared whether my
reaction might be considered a literary cliche. I was not about to pass
up on that opportunity without thinking about it first. And then, you
see, I had a clever idea.” Professor Quirrell sighed. “It occurred to me
how I might fulfil the Prophecy my own way, to my own benefit. I would
mark the baby as my equal by casting the old horcrux spell in such
fashion as to imprint my own spirit onto the baby’s blank slate; it
would be a purer copy of myself, since there would be no old self to mix
with the new. In some years, when I had become bored with ruling Britain
and moved on to other things, I would arrange with the other Tom Riddle
that he should appear to vanquish me, and he would rule over the Britain
he had saved. We would play the game against each other forever, keeping
our lives interesting amid a world of fools. I knew a dramatist would
predict that the two of us would end by destroying each other; but I
pondered long upon it, and decided that both of us would simply decline
to play out the drama. That was my decision and I was confident that it
would remain so; both Tom Riddles, I thought, would be too intelligent
to truly go down that road. The prophecy seemed to hint that if I
destroyed all but a remnant of Harry Potter, then our spirits would not
be so different, and we could exist in the same world.”

“Something went wrong,” Harry said. “Something that blew off the top of
the Potters’ home in Godric’s Hollow, gave me the scar on my forehead,
and left your burnt body behind.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. His hands had slowed in their Potions work.
“The resonance in our magic,” Professor Quirrell said quietly. “When I
had shaped the baby’s spirit to be like my own…”

Harry remembered the moment in Azkaban when Professor Quirrell’s Killing
Curse had collided with his Patronus. The burning, tearing agony in his
forehead, like his head had been about to split in half.

“I cannot count how many times I have thought of that night, rehearsing
my mistake, thinking of wiser things I should have done,” said Professor
Quirrell. “I later decided that I should have thrown my wand from my
hand and changed into my Animagus form. But that night… that night, I
instinctively tried to control the chaotic fluctuations in my magic,
even as I felt myself burning up from inside. That was the wrong
decision, and I failed. So my body was destroyed, even as I overwrote
the infant Harry Potter’s mind; each of us destroying all but a remnant
of the other. And then…” Professor Quirrell’s expression was controlled.
“And then, when I regained consciousness inside my horcruxes, it turned
out that my great creation did not work as I had hoped. I should have
been able to float free of my horcruxes and possess any victim that
consented to me, or that was too weak to refuse me. That was the part of
my great creation that failed my intent. As with the original horcrux
spell, I would only be able to enter a victim who contacted the physical
horcrux… and I had hidden my unnumbered horcruxes in places where nobody
would ever find them. Your instinct is correct, boy, this would not be a
good time to laugh.”

Harry stayed very quiet.

The Potions-making had come to a temporary pause, a space where no
ingredients were added while the cauldron simmered for a time. “I spent
most of my time looking at the stars,” Professor Quirrell said, his
voice quieter now. The Defence Professor had turned from the potion,
staring at the white-illuminated walls of the room. “My remaining hope
was the horcruxes I had hidden in the hopeless idiocy of my youth.
Imbuing them into ancient lockets, instead of anonymous pebbles;
guarding them beneath wells of poison in the centre of a lake of Inferi,
instead of portkeying them into the sea. If someone found one of those,
and penetrated their ridiculous protections… but that seemed like a
distant hope. I was not sure I would ever be embodied again. Yet at
least I was immortal. The worst of all fates had been averted, my great
creation had done that much. I had little left to hope for, and little
left to fear. I decided that I would not go insane, since there seemed
to be no advantage in it. Instead, I gazed out at the stars and thought,
as the Sun slowly diminished behind me. I reflected on the errors of my
past life; they were many, in that hindsight. In my imagination I
constructed powerful new rituals I might attempt, if I was free to use
my magic once more, and yet confident of my immortality. I contemplated
ancient riddles at greater length than before, for all that I had once
thought myself patient. I knew that if I won free, I would be more
powerful by far than in my previous life; but I mostly did not expect
that to happen.” Professor Quirrell turned back to the potion. “Nine
years and four months after that night, a wandering adventurer named
Quirinus Quirrell won past the protections guarding one of my earliest
horcruxes. The rest you know. And now, boy, you may say what we both
know you are thinking.”

“Um,” Harry said. “It doesn’t seem like a very smart thing to say—”

“Indeed, Mr Potter. It is not a clever thing to say to me. Not even a
little. Not in the slightest. But I know you’re thinking it, and you
will go on thinking it and I will go on knowing that until you say it.
So speak.”

“So. Um. I realise that this is something that is more obvious in
hindsight than in foresight, and I’m certainly not suggesting that you
try to correct the error now, but if you are a Dark Lord and you happen
to hear about a child who has been prophesied to defeat you, there is a
certain spell which is unblockable, unstoppable, and works every single
time on anything with a brain—”

“Yes thank you Mr Potter that thought occurred to me several times over
the next nine years.” Professor Quirrell picked up another bellflower
and began crumbling it in his bare fist. “I made that principle the
centrepiece of my Battle Magic curriculum after I learned its centrality
the hard way. It was not the first Rule on the younger Tom Riddle’s
list. It is only by harsh experience that we learn which principles take
priority over which other principles; as mere words they all sound
equally persuasive. In retrospect it would have been better if I had
sent Bellatrix to the Potters’ home in my place; but I had a Rule
telling me that for such matters I must go myself and not try sending a
trusted lieutenant. Yes, I considered the Killing Curse; but I wondered
if casting the Killing Curse at an infant would somehow cause the curse
to bounce off and hit me, thus fulfilling the prophecy. How was I to
know?”

“So use an axe, it’s hard to get a prophecy-fulfilling spell backfire
out of an axe,” Harry said and then shut up.

“I decided the safest path was to try to fulfil the prophecy on my own
terms,” Professor Quirrell said. “Needless to say, the next time I hear
a prophecy I do not like, I will tear it apart at every possible point
of intervention, rather than trying to play along.” Professor Quirrell
was crushing a rose as though to squeeze the juice out of it, still
using his bare fist. “And now everyone thinks the Boy-Who-Lived is
somehow immune to the Killing Curse, even though Killing Curses do not
ruin houses or leave burnt bodies behind them, because it has not
occurred to them that Lord Voldemort would ever use any other spell.”

Harry again stayed quiet. It had occurred to Harry that there was
another obvious way that Lord Voldemort could have avoided his mistake.
Something that might perhaps be easier to see given a Muggle upbringing,
instead of the wizarding way of looking at things.

Harry had not yet decided whether to tell Professor Quirrell about his
thought; there were both pros and cons to pointing out that particular
error.

After a time Professor Quirrell picked up the next Potions ingredient, a
strand of what looked like unicorn hair. “I tell you this as a caution,”
said Professor Quirrell. “Do not expect me to be delayed another nine
years, if you somehow destroy this body of mine. I set horcruxes in
better places at once, and now even that is unnecessary. Thanks to you,
I learned where to find the Resurrection Stone. The Resurrection Stone
does not bring back the dead, of course; but it holds a more ancient
magic than my own for projecting the seeming of a spirit. And since I am
one who has defeated death, Cadmus’s Hallow acknowledged me its master,
and answered all my will. I have now incorporated it into my great
creation.” Professor Quirrell smiled slightly. “I had many years earlier
considered making that device a horcrux, but decided against it at the
time, since I realized that the ring had magic of unknown nature… ah,
such ironies does life play upon us. But I digress. You, boy, you
brought that about, you freed my spirit to fly where it pleases and
seduce the most opportune victim, by being too casual with your secrets.
It is a catastrophe for any who oppose me, and you wrought it with one
finger drawing wetness on a tea-saucer. This world will be a safer place
for all, if you learn the rectitude that wizardborns absorb in
childhood. And all thiss that I have jusst ssaid iss the truth.”

Harry closed his eyes, and his own hand massaged his forehead; if he had
seen it from the outside, it would have looked the mirror of Professor
Quirrell in deep thought.

The problem of defeating Professor Quirrell was looking increasingly
difficult, even by the standards of the sort of impossible problems that
Harry had solved already. If communicating that difficulty was what
Professor Quirrell was trying to do, he was succeeding. Harry was
starting to seriously consider the possibility that it might be better
to offer to rule Britain as Voldemort’s non-homicidal delegate, if
Professor Quirrell himself would just agree to stop killing people all
the time. Even mostly.

But that wasn’t likely to happen.

Harry stared at his hands, from where he had sat down upon the floor,
feeling sadness shading over into despair. The Lord Voldemort who’d
given Harry his dark side had spent that long thinking things over and
reflecting on his own thought processes… and had emerged as the calm,
clear-headed, and still homicidal Professor Quirrell.

Professor Quirrell added a pinch of golden hair to the potion of
effulgence, and that reminded Harry that time was continuing to move;
the locks of bright hair were rarer than the bellflowers.

“I ask my second question,” Harry said. “Tell me about the Philosopher’s
Stone. Does it do anything besides making Transfigurations permanent? Is
it possible to make more Stones, and why is that problem hard?”

Professor Quirrell was bent over the potion, and Harry could not see his
face. “Very well, I shall tell you the Stone’s story as I have inferred
it. The one and only power of the Stone is the imposition of permanency,
to render a temporary form into a true and lasting substance—a power
absolutely beyond ordinary spells. Conjurations such as the castle
Hogwarts are maintained by a constant well of magic. Even Metamorphmagi
cannot manifest golden fingernails and then trim them for sale. It is
theorized that the Metamorphmagus curse merely rearranges the substance
of their flesh, like a Muggle smith manipulates iron with hammer and
tongs; and their body contains no gold. If Merlin himself could create
gold from thin air, history does not record it. So the Stone, we can
guess even before research, must be a very old thing indeed. In
contrast, Nicholas Flamel has been known to the world for a mere six
centuries. Tell me the obvious next question to ask, boy, if you wanted
to trace the Stone’s history.”

“Um,” Harry said. He rubbed his forehead, concentrating. If the Stone
was old, but the world had only known Nicholas Flamel for six centuries…
“Was there some other very long-lived wizard who disappeared at around
the same time Nicholas Flamel showed up?”

“Close,” said Professor Quirrell. “You recall that six centuries ago
there was a Dark Lady called undying, the sorceress Baba Yaga? She was
said to be able to heal any wound in herself, to change shape into any
form she pleased… she held the Stone of Permanency, obviously. And then
one year Baba Yaga agreed to teach Battle Magic at Hogwarts, under an
old and respected truce.” Professor Quirrell looked… angry, a look such
as Harry had rarely seen on him. “But she was not trusted, and so there
was invoked a curse. Some curses are easier to cast when they bind
yourself and others alike; Slytherin’s Parselmouth curse is an example
of such. In this case, Baba Yaga’s signature, and signatures from every
student and teacher of Hogwarts, were placed within an ancient device
known as the Goblet of Fire. Baba Yaga swore not to shed a drop of
students’ blood, nor take from the students anything that was theirs. In
return, the students swore not to shed a drop of Baba Yaga’s blood, nor
take from her anything that was hers. So they all signed, with the
Goblet of Fire to witness it and punish the transgressor.”

Professor Quirrell picked up a new ingredient, a loose thread of gold
wrapped around a pinch of foul-looking substance. “Entering her sixth
year at Hogwarts, then, was a witch named Perenelle. And although
Perenelle was new-come into the beauty of her youth, her heart was
already blacker than Baba Yaga’s own—”

“You’re calling her evil?” Harry said, then realized he had just
committed the fallacy of ad hominem tu quoque.

“Hush, boy, I am telling the story. Where was I? Ah, yes, Perenelle, the
beautiful and covetous. Perenelle seduced the Dark Lady over the months,
with gentle touches and flirtations and the shy pretence of innocence.
The Dark Lady’s heart was captured, and they became lovers. And then one
night Perenelle whispered how she had heard of Baba Yaga’s
shape-changing power and how this thought had inflamed her desires; thus
Perenelle swayed Baba Yaga to come to her with the Stone in hand, to
assume many guises in a single night, for their pleasures. Among other
forms Perenelle bid Baba Yaga take the form of a man; and they lay
together in the fashion of a man and a woman. But Perenelle had been a
virgin until that night. And since they were all rather old-fashioned in
those days, the Goblet of Fire accounted that as the shedding of
Perenelle’s blood, and the taking of what was hers; thus Baba Yaga was
tricked into being forsworn, and the Goblet rendered her defenceless.
Then Perenelle killed the unsuspecting Baba Yaga as she slept in
Perenelle’s bed, killed the Dark Lady who had loved her and come
peacefully to Hogwarts under truce; and that was the end of the pact by
which Dark Wizards and Witches taught Battle Magic at Hogwarts. For the
next few centuries the Goblet of Fire was used to oversee pointless
inter-school tournaments, and then it resided in a disused chamber at
Beauxbatons, until I finally stole it.” Professor Quirrell dropped a
pale beige-pink twig into the cauldron, and its colour changed to white
just as it touched the surface. “But I digress. Perenelle took the Stone
from Baba Yaga, and assumed the guise and name of Nicholas Flamel. She
also kept her identity as Perenelle, calling herself Flamel’s wife. The
two have appeared together in public, but that might be done by any
number of obvious methods.”

“And the Stone’s manufacture?” said Harry, his brain working to process
all this. “I saw an alchemical recipe for it, in a book—”

“Another lie. Perenelle was making it appear as though ‘Nicholas Flamel’
had earned the right to live forever by completing a great magic that
any could attempt. And she was giving others a false path to pursue,
instead of seeking the one true Stone as Perenelle had sought Baba
Yaga’s.” Professor Quirrell looked rather sour. “It should come as no
surprise that I spent years trying to master that false recipe. Next you
will ask why I did not kidnap, torture, and kill Perenelle after I
learned the truth.”

This had not in fact been a question that had come into Harry’s mind.

Professor Quirrell continued to speak. “The answer is that Perenelle had
foreseen and forestalled the ambitions of Dark Wizards like myself.
‘Nicholas Flamel’ publicly took Unbreakable Vows not to be coerced by
any means into relinquishing his Stone—to guard immortality from the
covetous, he claimed, as if that were a public service. I was afraid the
Stone would be lost forever, if Perenelle died without saying where it
was hidden, and her Vow prevented attempts at torture. Further, I had
hopes of gaining Perenelle’s knowledge, if I could find the right
strategy to extract it from her. Though Perenelle began with little lore
of her own, she has held hostage the lives of wizards greater than
herself, holding out dribs and drabs of healing in exchange for secrets,
and small reversals of age in exchange for power. Perenelle does not
condescend to bestow any real youth upon others—but if you hear of a
wizard who lived, grey-bearded, to the age of two hundred and fifty, you
may be sure that her hand was in play. By my own generation, the
centuries had given Perenelle enough of an advantage that she could
raise up Albus Dumbledore as a counterweight to the Dark Lord
Grindelwald. When I appeared as Lord Voldemort, Perenelle raised up
Dumbledore yet further, parcelling out another drop of her hoarded lore
whenever Lord Voldemort seemed to gain an advantage. I felt like I ought
to be able to figure out something clever to do with that situation, but
I never did. I did not attack her directly, for I was not sure of my
great creation; it was not impossible that I would some day need to go
begging to her for a dollop of reversed age.” Professor Quirrell dropped
two bellflowers at once into the potion, and they seemed to merge as
they touched the bubbling liquid. “But now I am sure of my creation, and
so I have decided that the time has come to take the Stone by force.”

Harry hesitated. “I would like to hear you answer in Parseltongue, was
all of that true?”

“None of it iss known to me to be falsse,” said Professor Quirrell.
“Telling a tale implies filling in certain gaps; I was not present to
observe when Perenelle seduced Baba Yaga. The bassicss sshould be
mosstly correct, I think.”

Harry had noticed a trace of confusion. “Then I don’t understand why the
Stone is here in Hogwarts. Wouldn’t the best defence just be hiding it
under an anonymous rock in Greenland?”

“Perhaps she respected my abilities as a particularly good finder,” said
the Defence Professor. He appeared focused on his cauldron as he dipped
a bellflower into a jar of liquid labelled with the Potions symbol for
rainwater.

We are very much alike, the Defence Professor and I, in some ways if not
others. If I imagine what I’d do, given his problem…

“Did you bluff everyone into believing you had some way of finding the
Stone?” Harry said aloud. “So that Perenelle would put it inside
Hogwarts, where Dumbledore could guard it?”

The Defence Professor sighed, not looking up from the cauldron. “I
suppose that stratagem would be futile to conceal from you. Yes, after I
possessed Quirrell and returned, I implemented a strategy I had
conceived while gazing at the stars. First I made sure to be accepted as
Defence Professor at Hogwarts, for it would not do to have suspicions
raised while I was still seeking employment. When that was done, I
arranged for one of Perenelle’s curse-breaking expeditions to discover a
falsified but credible inscription describing how the Crown of the
Serpent could be used to seek out the Stone wherever it was hidden.
Immediately after, before Perenelle could buy up the Crown, it was
stolen; furthermore I left clear indications that the thief had
possessed the power to speak to snakes. So Perenelle thought that I
could infallibly find the Stone’s location, and that it needed a
guardian powerful enough to defeat me. That is how the Stone came to be
held in Hogwarts, in Dumbledore’s domain. Just as I intended, naturally,
since I had already gained access to Hogwarts for the year. I think that
is all of this that concerns you, if I speak not of future plans.”

Harry frowned. Professor Quirrell should not have told him that. Unless
the strategy had somehow become irrelevant to any future deception of
Perenelle…? Or unless, by answering so quickly, the Defence Professor
had hoped to have people conclude that it was a double-bluff, and that
the Crown of the Serpent really could find the Stone…

Harry decided not to question this answer in Parseltongue.

Another lock of bright hair, seeming white but not with age, was gently
dribbled into the cauldron, again reminding Harry that they were on a
time limit. Harry considered, but he couldn’t see any further path to
pursue this line of questioning; there was no known way to manufacture
more Philosopher’s Stones and no obvious way to invent such, which was
probably the objectively worst news Harry had heard all day.

Harry took a deep breath. “I ask my third question,” Harry said. “What’s
the truth behind this entire school year? All the plots you ran, all the
plots you know about.”

“Hm,” said Professor Quirrell, dropping another bellflower into the
potion, accompanied by a plant-shape like a tiny cross. “Let me see… the
most shocking twist is that the Defence Professor turns out to be
secretly Voldemort.”

“Well, obviously,” Harry said, with a good deal of self-directed
bitterness.

“Then where do you wish me to start?”

“Why did you kill Hermione?” The question just slipped out.

Professor Quirrell’s pale eyes glanced up from the potion, watched him
intently. “One would think that should be evident—but I suppose I cannot
blame you for distrusting what seems evident. To understand the object
of an obscure plot, observe its consequences and ask who might have
intended them. I killed Miss Granger to improve your position relative
to that of Lucius Malfoy, since my plans did not call for him to have so
much leverage over you. I admit I am impressed by how far you managed to
parlay that opening.”

Harry unclenched his teeth, which took an effort. “That’s after your
failed attempt to frame Hermione for the attempted murder of Draco and
send her to Azkaban because of why? Because you didn’t like the
influence she was having on me?”

“Don’t be ridiculous,” Professor Quirrell said. “If I had only wished to
remove Miss Granger, I would not have brought the Malfoys into it. I
observed your game with Draco Malfoy and found it amusing, but I knew it
could not continue for very long before Lucius learned and intervened;
and then your folly would have brought you great trouble, for Lucius
would not take it lightly. Had you just been able to lose during the
Wizengamot trial, lose as I had taught you, then in only two more weeks,
ironclad evidence would have shown that Lucius Malfoy, after discovering
his son’s seeming perfidy, had Imperiused Professor Sprout into using
the Blood-Cooling Charm on Mr Malfoy and casting the False Memory Charm
on Miss Granger. Lucius would have been swept off the political game
board, sent to exile if not Azkaban; Draco Malfoy would have inherited
the wealth of House Malfoy, and your influence over him would have been
unchallenged. Instead I had to abort that plot in mid-course. You
managed to completely disrupt the real plan in the course of sacrificing
double your entire fortune, by giving Lucius Malfoy the perfect
opportunity to prove his true concern for his son. You have an
incredible anti-talent for meddling, I must say.”

“And you also thought,” Harry said, even with his dark side’s patterns
he had to work to keep his voice level and cool, “that two weeks in
Azkaban would improve Miss Granger’s disposition, and get her to stop
being a bad influence on me. So you somehow arranged for there to be
newspaper stories calling for her to be sent to Azkaban, rather than
some other penalty.”

Professor Quirrell’s lips drew up in a thin smile. “Good catch, boy.
Yes, I thought she might serve as your Bellatrix. That particular
outcome would also have provided you with a constant reminder of how
much respect was due the law, and helped you develop appropriate
attitudes toward the Ministry.”

“Your plot was stupidly complicated and had no chance of working.” Harry
knew he ought to be more tactful, that he was engaging in more of what
Professor Quirrell called folly, but in that instant he could not bring
himself to care.

“It was less complicated than Dumbledore’s plot to have the three armies
tie in the Christmas Battle, and not much more complicated than my own
plot to make you think Dumbledore had blackmailed Mr Zabini. The insight
you are missing, Mr Potter, is that these were not plots that needed to
succeed.” Professor Quirrell continued to casually stir the potion,
smiling. “There are plots that must succeed, where you keep the core
idea as simple as possible and take every precaution. There are also
plots where it is acceptable to fail, and with those you can indulge
yourself, or test the limits of your ability to handle complications. It
was not as if something going wrong with any of those plots would have
killed me.” Professor Quirrell was no longer smiling. “Our journey into
Azkaban was of the first type, and I was less amused by your antics
there.”

“What exactly did you do to Hermione?” Some part of Harry wondered at
the evenness of his voice.

“Obliviations and False Memory Charms. I could not trust anything else
to go undetected by the Hogwarts wards and the scrutiny I knew her mind
would undergo.” A flicker of frustration crossed Professor Quirrell’s
face. “Part of what you rightly call complication is because the first
version of my plot did not go as planned, and I had to modify it. I came
to Miss Granger in the hallways wearing the appearance of Professor
Sprout, to offer her a conspiracy. My first attempt at suasion failed. I
Obliviated her and tried again with a new presentation. The second bait
failed. The third bait failed. The tenth bait failed. I was so
frustrated that I began going through my entire library of guises,
including those more appropriate to Mr Zabini. Still nothing worked. The
child would not violate her childish code.”

“You do not get to call her childish, Professor.” Harry’s voice sounded
strange in his own ears. “Her code worked. It prevented you from
tricking her. The whole point of having deontological ethical
injunctions is that arguments for violating them are often much less
trustworthy than they look. You don’t get to criticize her rules when
they worked exactly as intended.” After they resurrected Hermione, Harry
would tell her that Lord Voldemort himself hadn’t been able to tempt her
into doing wrong, and that was why he’d killed her.

“Fair enough, I suppose,” said Professor Quirrell. “There is a saying
that even a stopped clock is right twice a day, and I do not think
Miss Granger was actually being reasonable. Still, Rule Ten: one must
not rant about the opposition’s unworthiness after they have foiled you.
Regardless. After two full hours of failed attempts, I realized that I
was being over-stubborn, and that I did not need Miss Granger to carry
out the exact part I had planned for her. I gave up on my original
intent, and instead imbued Miss Granger with False Memories of watching
Mr Malfoy plotting against her under circumstances that implied she
should not tell you or the authorities. In the end it was Mr Malfoy who
gave me the opening I needed, entirely by luck.” Professor Quirrell
dropped a bellflower and a scrap of parchment into the cauldron.

“Why did the wards show the Defence Professor as having killed
Hermione?”

“I wore the mountain troll as a false tooth while Dumbledore was
identifying me to the Hogwarts wards as the Defence Professor.” A slight
smile. “Other living weapons cannot be Transfigured; they will not
survive the disenchantment for the requisite six hours to avoid being
traced by Time-Turner. The fact that a mountain troll was used as a
weapon of assassination was a clear sign that the assassin had needed a
proxy weapon that could be Transfigured safely. Combined with the
evidence of the wards, and Dumbledore’s own knowledge of how he had
identified me to Hogwarts, you could have deduced who was responsible—in
theory. However, experience has taught me that such puzzles are far
harder to solve when you do not already know the solution, and I
considered it a small risk. Ah, that reminds me, I have a question of my
own.” The Defence Professor was now giving Harry an intent look. “What
gave me away at the last, in the corridor outside these chambers?”

Harry put aside other emotions to weigh up the cost and benefit of
answering honestly, came to the conclusion that the Defence Professor
was giving away far more information than he was getting (why?) and that
it was best not to give the appearance of reticence. “The main thing,”
Harry said, “was that it was too improbable that everyone had arrived in
Dumbledore’s corridor at the same time. I tried running with the
hypothesis that everyone who arrived had to be coordinated, including
you.”

“But I had said that I was following Snape,” the Defence Professor said.
“Was that not plausible?”

“It was, but…” Harry said. “Um. The laws governing what constitutes a
good explanation don’t talk about plausible excuses you hear afterwards.
They talk about the probabilities we assign in advance. That’s why
science makes people do advance predictions, instead of trusting
explanations people come up with afterwards. And I wouldn’t have
predicted in advance for you to follow Snape and show up like that. Even
if I’d known in advance that you could put a trace on Snape’s wand, I
wouldn’t have expected you to do it and follow him just then. Since your
explanation didn’t make me feel like I would have predicted the outcome
in advance, it remained an improbability. I started to wonder if
Sprout’s mastermind might have arranged for you to show up, too. And
then I realised the note to myself hadn’t really come from future-me,
and that gave it away completely.”

“Ah,” said the Defence Professor, and sighed. “Well, I think it is all
working out for the best. You did understand only too late; and there
would have been inconveniences as well as benefits to you remaining
unaware.”

“What on Earth were you trying to do? The reason I was trying so hard to
figure it out was that the whole thing was just so weird.”

“That should have pointed at Dumbledore, not myself,” said Professor
Quirrell, and frowned. “The fact is that Miss Greengrass was not
supposed to arrive in that corridor for several hours… though I suppose,
since I did have Mr Malfoy give her the clue I assigned her, it is not
too surprising they banded together. Had Mr Nott arrived seemingly
alone, events would have played out less farcically. But I consider
myself a specialist in battlefield control magics, and I was able to
ensure that the fight went as I wished. I suppose it did end up looking
a bit ridiculous.” The Defence Professor dropped a peach slice and a
bellflower into the cauldron. “But let us defer our discussion of the
Mirror until we reach it. Did you have any more questions concerning
Miss Granger’s regrettable and hopefully temporary demise?”

“Yes,” Harry said in an even voice. “What did you do to the Weasley
twins? Dumbledore thought—I mean, the school saw the Headmaster go to
the Weasley twins after Hermione was arrested. Dumbledore thought you,
as Voldemort, had wondered why Dumbledore had done so, and that you’d
checked on the Weasley twins, found and took their map, and Obliviated
them afterwards?”

“Dumbledore was quite correct,” Professor Quirrell said, shaking his
head as though in wonderment. “He was also an utter fool to leave the
Hogwarts Map in the possession of those two idiots. I had an unpleasant
shock after I recovered the Map; it showed my name and yours correctly!
The Weasley idiots had thought it a mere malfunction, especially after
you received your Cloak and your Time-Turner. If Dumbledore had kept the
Map himself—if the Weasleys had ever spoken of it to Dumbledore—but they
did not, thankfully.”

Showed my name and yours correctly—

“I would like to see that,” Harry said.

Without taking his eyes from the cauldron, Professor Quirrell drew a
folded parchment from within his robes, hissed at it “Sshow our
ssurroundingss,” and tossed the folded parchment toward Harry. It cut
unerringly through the air, an increase of doom breathing on Harry’s
senses as it moved toward him, and then it fluttered gently to Harry’s
feet.

Harry picked up the parchment and unfolded it.

At first the parchment seemed blank. Then, as though an unseen pen were
moving across it, the outline of walls and doors appeared, all drawn in
handwritten lines. The writing outlined a series of chambers, most of
them shown as empty; the last chamber in the series had a confused
scribble in its centre, as though the Map were trying to indicate its
own bewilderment; and the second-to-last chamber showed two names
within, written in positions within the chamber corresponding to where
Harry was sitting and Professor Quirrell was standing.

Tom M. Riddle.

Tom M. Riddle.

Harry gazed at the parchment, an unpleasant chill coming over him. It
was one thing to hear Lord Voldemort claim that your name was Tom
Riddle; it was another thing to find that Hogwarts’s magic agreed. “Did
you tamper with thiss map to achieve thiss ressult, or did it appear
before you by ssurprisse?”

“Wass ssurprisse,” replied Professor Quirrell, with an overtone of
hissing laughter. “No trickss.”

Harry folded the Map and threw it back in Professor Quirrell’s
direction; some force caught it in mid-air before it reached the floor,
and drew the Map back into Professor Quirrell’s robes.

The Defence Professor spoke. “I should also like to volunteer that Snape
was guiding Miss Granger and her underlings toward bullies, and
sometimes intervening to protect them.”

“I knew that.”

“Interesting,” said Professor Quirrell. “Did Dumbledore also learn of
this? Answer in Parseltongue.”

“Not sso far ass I know,” hissed Harry.

“Fascinating,” said Professor Quirrell. “You may be interested to know
this as well: Potionss-maker had to work in ssecret becausse hiss plot
oppossed sschoolmasster’ss plot.”

Harry thought about this, while Professor Quirrell blew on the potion as
though to cool it, though the fire still burned under the cauldron; then
added a pinch of dirt and a drop of water and a bellflower. “Please
explain,” Harry said.

“Has it never occurred to you to wonder why Dumbledore chose Severus
Snape as the Head of House Slytherin? To say that it was a cover for his
work as Dumbledore’s spy explains nothing. Snape could have been a
Potions Master only, and not the Head of Slytherin at all. Snape could
have been made Keeper of Grounds and Keys, if he needed to stay within
Hogwarts! Why the Head of House Slytherin? Surely it occurred to you
that this could not have good effects upon the Slytherins, according to
Dumbledore’s moral pretences?”

The thought hadn’t occurred to Harry in exactly those terms, no… “I
wondered something like it. I didn’t put the dilemma in that precise
form.”

“And now that you have, is the solution obvious?”

“No,” Harry said.

“Disappointing. You have not learned enough cynicism, you have not
grasped the flexibility of what moralists call morality. To fathom a
plot, look at the consequences and ask if they might be intended.
Dumbledore was deliberately sabotaging Slytherin House—don’t give me
that look, boy, I am sspeaking truth. During the last Wizarding War,
Slytherins filled out my ranks of underlings, and other Slytherins in
the Wizengamot supported me. Look at it from Dumbledore’s perspective,
and remember that he has no native understanding of Slytherin’s ways.
Think of Dumbledore becoming increasingly sad over this Hogwarts House
that seems the source of so much ill-doing. And then behold, Dumbledore
puts in as Head of Slytherin the person of Snape. Snape! Severus Snape!
A man who would teach his House neither cunning nor ambition, a man who
would impose lax discipline and make its children weak! A man who would
offend students of other Houses, who would ruin Slytherin’s name among
them! A man whose surname was unknown in magical Britain and certainly
not noble, who went about half in rags! Do you think Dumbledore ignorant
of the consequence? When Dumbledore was the one who brought it about,
and had motive to bring it about? I expect Dumbledore told himself that
more lives would be saved during the next Wizarding War if Voldemort’s
future Death Eaters were weakened.” Professor Quirrell dropped into the
cauldron a chip of ice, slowly melting as it touched the surface froth.
“Continue the process long enough, and no child would want to go to
Slytherin. The House would be retired, and if the Hat kept calling the
name, it would become a mark of ignominy among children who would
afterwards be distributed among the other three Houses. From that day
on, Hogwarts would have three upstanding Houses of courage and
scholarship and industry, with no House of Bad Children added to the
mix; just as if the three Founders of Hogwarts had been wise enough in
the beginning to refuse Salazar Slytherin their company. That, I expect,
was Dumbledore’s intended end-game; a short-term sacrifice for the
greater good.” Professor Quirrell smiled sardonically. “And Lucius let
it all happen without protest or even, I expect, noticing that anything
was going awry. I fear that in my absence my former servants have been
quite outmatched in this battle of wits.”

Harry was having a bit of trouble taking this in, but decided, after
some thought, that now was not the time to try to work it out. Whether
Lord Voldemort believed it was not decisive; Harry would have to
evaluate this accusation on his own.

Professor Quirrell’s mention of his servants had reminded Harry of
something else that he was… obliged, Harry supposed, to ask. The bad
news was predictable. On any other day it would have been horrible.
Today it would just wash out in the flood. “Bellatrix Black,” Harry
said. “What was the truth about her?”

“She was broken inside before I ever met her,” Professor Quirrell said.
He picked up what looked like a white-grey rubber band and held it over
the cauldron; as the rubber was held within the steam, it turned black.
“Using Legilimency on her was a mistake. But that glimpse showed me how
easy it would be to make her fall in love with me, so I did. Ever after
she was the most faithful of all my servants, the only one I could
almost trust. I had no intention of giving her what she wanted from me;
so I commended her to the Lestrange brothers for their use, and the
three of them were happy in their own special way.”

“I doubt it,” Harry’s mouth said, mostly on autopilot. “If that were
true, Bellatrix wouldn’t have remembered who the Lestrange brothers
were, when we found her in Azkaban.”

Professor Quirrell shrugged. “You may be right.”

“What the hell were we actually doing there?”

“Finding out where Bellatrix had put my wand. I had told the Death
Eaters of my immortality, in the hope—now proven futile—that they would
stay together for at least a few days if I appeared to die. Bellatrix’s
instructions were to recover my wand from wherever my body had been
slain; and take that wand to a certain graveyard where my spirit would
appear before her.”

Harry swallowed. The image came to him of Bellatrix Black waiting,
waiting, waiting at the graveyard, in increasing desperation… it was no
wonder she hadn’t been thinking strategically when she attacked the
Longbottom household. “What did you do with Bellatrix once she was out?”

“Ssent her to a peaceful place to recover sstrength,” Professor Quirrell
said. A cold smile. “I had a use remaining for her, or rather a certain
portion of her, and on my future plans I shall not answer questions.”

Harry breathed deeply, trying to maintain control. “Were there any other
secret plots in this school year?”

“Oh, a fair number, but not many more that concern you, not that I can
think of offhand. The true reason I demanded to try to teach the
Patronus Charm to first-years was to bring a Dementor before your own
person, and then I arranged for your wand to fall where the Dementor
could continue to drain you through it. Wass no malice in it, only
hopess that you would recover ssome of your true memoriess. That was
also why I arranged for certain witches to pull you down from the air
during your rooftop episode, so I could appear to save your life; just
in case any suspicion fell on me during the Dementor incident I had
scheduled for shortly after. Alsso no malice there. I arranged some of
the attacks on Miss Granger’s group, so that the attacks could be
defeated; I do rather dislike bullies. Think that iss all ssecret plotss
concerning you from thiss sschool year, unlesss I have forgotten
ssomething.”

Life lesson learned, said his Hufflepart. Try to resist the temptation
to randomly meddle in other people’s lives. Like, you know, Padma
Patil’s life. If you don’t want to end up like this, that is.

A pinch of red-brown dust was gently sifted into the potions cauldron,
and Harry asked his fourth and final question, the one that had seemed
to have the lowest priority, but still mattered.

“What was your objective during the Wizarding War?” Harry said. “I mean,
what—” His voice wobbled. “What was the point of the entire thing?” His
brain repeating endlessly, Why, why, why Lord Voldemort…

Professor Quirrell lifted an eyebrow. “They told you about David Monroe,
did they not?”

“Yes you were both David Monroe and Lord Voldemort during the Wizarding
War, I understood that part. You killed David Monroe, disguised yourself
as him, and wiped out David Monroe’s family so they wouldn’t notice any
differences—”

“Indeed.”

“You planned to control whichever side won the Wizarding War, regardless
of which side won. But why did one side have to be Voldemort? I, I mean,
wouldn’t it have been easier to gain public support with someone less…
with someone less Voldemort?”

Professor Quirrell’s mallet made an unusually loud thud as it crushed
white butterfly wings, mixing them with another bellflower. “I planned,”
Professor Quirrell said harshly, “for Lord Voldemort to lose to David
Monroe. The flaw in that strategy was the absolute wretchedness of—”
Professor Quirrell stopped. “No, I am telling the tale out of order.
Listen, boy, when I had devised my great creation and come into the
fullness of my magic, I thought the time had come for me to take
political power into my hands. It would be inconvenient, certainly, and
take up my time in ways that were not enjoyable. But I knew the Muggles
would eventually destroy the world or make war on wizardkind or both,
and something had to be done if I was not to wander a dead or dull world
through my eternity. Having attained immortality I needed a new ambition
to occupy my decades, and to prevent the Muggles from ruining everything
seemed a goal of acceptable scope and difficulty. It is a source of
continual amusement to me that I, of all people, am the only one really
taking action towards that end. Though I suppose it would make sense for
the mortal insects not to care about their world’s end; why should they,
when they are just going to die regardless, and can save themselves the
inconvenience of trying to do anything difficult along the way? But I
digress. I saw how Dumbledore had risen to power from his defeat of
Grindelwald, so I thought I would do the same. I had long ago taken my
vengeance on David Monroe—he was an annoyance from my year in
Slytherin—so I bethought to also steal his identity, and wipe out his
family to make myself heir of his House. And I conceived also a great
foe for David Monroe to fight, the most terrifying Dark Lord imaginable,
clever beyond reckoning; more dangerous by far than Grindelwald, for his
intelligence would be perfected in all the ways that Grindelwald had
been flawed and self-destructive. A Dark Lord who would do his cunning
utmost to disrupt the alliances who would fight him, a Dark Lord who
would command the deepest loyalty from his followers through his
oratorical skills. The most dreadful Dark Lord who had ever threatened
Britain or the world, that was who David Monroe would defeat.”

Professor Quirrell’s mallet struck a bellflower and then a different
pale flower with two more thuds. “But then, while I had sometimes played
the part of Dark Wizard in my wanderings, I had never adopted the
identity of a full-fledged Dark Lord with underlings and a political
agenda. I had no practice at the task, and I was mindful of the story of
Dark Evangel and the disaster of her first public appearance. According
to what she said afterwards, she had meant to call herself the Walking
Catastrophe and the Apostle of Darkness, but in the excitement of the
moment she introduced herself as the Apostrophe of Darkness instead.
After that she had to ruin two entire villages before anyone took her
seriously.”

“So you decided to try a small-scale experiment first,” Harry said. A
sickness rose up in him, because in that moment Harry understood, he saw
himself reflected; the next step was just what Harry himself would have
done, if he’d had no trace of ethics whatsoever, if he’d been that empty
inside. “You created a disposable identity, to learn how the ropes
worked, and get your mistakes out of the way.”

“Indeed. Before becoming a truly terrible Dark Lord for David Monroe to
fight, I first created for practice the persona of a Dark Lord with
glowing red eyes, pointlessly cruel to his underlings, pursuing a
political agenda of naked personal ambition combined with blood purism
as argued by drunks in Knockturn Alley. My first underlings were hired
in a tavern, given cloaks and skull masks, and told to introduce
themselves as Death Eaters.”

The sick sense of understanding deepened, in the pit of Harry’s stomach.
“And you called yourself Voldemort.”

“Just so, General Chaos.” Professor Quirrell was grinning, from where he
stood by the cauldron. “I wanted it to be an anagram of my name, but
that would only have worked if I’d conveniently been given the middle
name of ‘Marvolo’, and then it would have been a stretch. Our actual
middle name is Morfin, if you’re curious. But I digress. I thought
Voldemort’s career would last only a few months, a year at the longest,
before the Aurors brought down his underlings and the disposable Dark
Lord vanished. As you perceive, I had vastly overestimated my
competition. And I could not quite bring myself to torture my underlings
when they brought me bad news, no matter what Dark Lords did in plays. I
could not quite manage to argue the tenets of blood purism as
incoherently as if I were a drunk in Knockturn Alley. I was not trying
to be clever when I sent my underlings on their missions, but neither
did I give them entirely pointless orders—” Professor Quirrell gave a
rueful grin that, in another context, might have been called charming.
“One month after that, Bellatrix Black prostrated herself before me, and
after three months Lucius Malfoy was negotiating with me over glasses of
expensive Firewhiskey. I sighed, gave up all hope for wizardkind, and
began as David Monroe to oppose this fearsome Lord Voldemort.”

“And then what happened—”

A snarl contorted Professor Quirrell’s face. “The absolute inadequacy of
every single institution in the civilization of magical Britain is what
happened! You cannot comprehend it, boy! I cannot comprehend it! It has
to be seen and even then it cannot be believed! You will have observed,
perhaps, that of your fellow students who speak of their family’s
occupations, three in four seem to mention jobs in some part or another
of the Ministry. You will wonder how a country can manage to employ
three of its four citizens in bureaucracy. The answer is that if they
did not all prevent each other from doing their jobs, none of them would
have any work left to do! The Aurors were competent as individual
fighters, they did fight Dark Wizards and only the best survived to
train new recruits, but their leadership was in absolute disarray. The
Ministry was so busy routing papers that the country had no effective
opposition to Voldemort’s attacks except myself, Dumbledore, and a
handful of untrained irregulars. A shiftless, incompetent, cowardly
layabout, Mundungus Fletcher, was considered a key asset in the Order of
the Phœnix—because, being otherwise unemployed, he did not need to
juggle another job! I tried weakening Voldemort’s attacks, to see if it
was possible for him to lose; at once the Ministry committed fewer
Aurors to oppose me! I had read Mao’s Little Red Book, I had trained my
Death Eaters in guerilla tactics—for nothing! For nothing! I was
attacking all of magical Britain and in every engagement my forces
outnumbered their opposition! In desperation, I ordered my Death Eaters
to systematically assassinate every single incompetent managing the
Department of Magical Law Enforcement. One paper-pusher after another
volunteered to accept higher positions despite the fate of their
predecessors, gleefully rubbing their hands at the prospect of
promotion. Every one of them thought they would cut a deal with Lord
Voldemort on the side. It took seven months to murder our way through
them all, and not a single Death Eater asked why we were bothering. And
then, even with Bartemius Crouch risen to Director and Amelia Bones as
Head Auror, it was still too little. I could have done better fighting
alone. Dumbledore’s aid was not worth his moral restraints, and Crouch’s
aid was not worth his respect for the law.” Professor Quirrell turned up
the fire beneath the potion.

“And eventually,” Harry said through the heart-sickness, “you realized
you were just having more fun as Voldemort.”

“It is the least annoying role I have ever played. If Lord Voldemort
says that something is to be done, people obey him and do not argue. I
did not have to suppress my impulse to Cruciate people being idiots; for
once it was all part of the role. If someone was making the game less
pleasant for me, I just said Avada Kedavra regardless of whether that
was strategically wise, and they never bothered me again.” Professor
Quirrell casually chopped a small worm into bits. “But my true epiphany
came on a certain day when David Monroe was trying to get an entry
permit for an Asian instructor in combat tactics, and a Ministry clerk
denied it, smiling smugly. I asked the Ministry clerk if he understood
that this measure was meant to save his life and the Ministry clerk only
smiled more. Then in fury I threw aside masks and caution, I used my
Legilimency, I dipped my fingers into the cesspit of his stupidity and
tore out the truth from his mind. I did not understand and I wanted to
understand. With my command of Legilimency I forced his tiny clerk-brain
to live out alternatives, seeing what his clerk-brain would think of
Lucius Malfoy, or Lord Voldemort, or Dumbledore standing in my place.”
Professor Quirrell’s hands had slowed, as he delicately peeled bits and
small strips from a chunk of candle-wax. “What I finally realized that
day is complicated, boy, which is why I did not understand it earlier in
life. To you I shall try to describe it anyway. Today I know that
Dumbledore does not stand at the top of the world, for all that he is
the Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation. People speak ill
of Dumbledore openly, they criticize him proudly and to his face, in a
way they would not dare stand up to Lucius Malfoy. You have acted
disrespectfully toward Dumbledore, boy, do you know why you did so?”

“I’m… not sure,” Harry said. Having Tom Riddle’s leftover neural
patterns was certainly an obvious hypothesis.

“Wolves, dogs, even chickens, fight for dominance among themselves. What
I finally understood, from that clerk’s mind, was that to him Lucius
Malfoy had dominance, Lord Voldemort had dominance, and David Monroe and
Albus Dumbledore did not. By taking the side of good, by professing to
abide in the light, we had made ourselves unthreatening. In Britain,
Lucius Malfoy has dominance, for he can call in your loans, or send
Ministry bureaucrats against your shop, or crucify you in the Daily
Prophet, if you go openly against his will. And the most powerful wizard
in the world has no dominance, because everyone knows that he is,”
Professor Quirrell’s lips curled, “a hero out of stories, relentlessly
self-effacing and too humble for vengeance. Tell me, child, have you
ever seen a drama where the hero, before he consents to save his
country, demands so much gold as a barrister might receive for a court
case?”

“Actually there have been a lot of heroes like that in Muggle fiction,
I’ll name Han Solo just to start—”

“Well, in magical drama it is not so. It is all humble heroes like
Dumbledore. It is the fantasy of the powerful slave who will never truly
rise above you, never demand your respect, never even ask you for pay.
Do you understand now?”

“I… think so,” Harry said. Frodo and Samwise from Lord of the Rings did
seem to match the archetype of a completely non-threatening hero.
“You’re saying that’s how people think of Dumbledore? I don’t believe
the Hogwarts students see him as a hobbit.”

“In Hogwarts, Dumbledore does punish certain transgressions against his
will, so he is feared to some degree—though the students still make free
to mock him in more than whispers. Outside this castle, Dumbledore is
sneered at; they began to call him mad, and he aped the part like a
fool. Step into the role of a saviour out of plays, and people see you
as a slave to whose services they are entitled and whom it is their
enjoyment to criticize; for it is the privilege of masters to sit back
and call forth helpful corrections while the slaves labour. Only in the
tales of the ancient Greeks, from when men were less sophisticated in
their delusions, may you see the hero who is also high. Hector, Aeneas,
those were heroes who retained their right of vengeance upon those who
insulted them, who could demand gold and jewels in payment for their
services without sparking indignation. And if Lord Voldemort conquered
Britain, he might then condescend to show himself noble in victory; and
nobody would take his goodwill for granted, nor chirp corrections at him
if his work was not to their liking. When he won, he would have true
respect. I understood that day in the Ministry that by envying
Dumbledore, I had shown myself as deluded as Dumbledore himself. I
understood that I had been trying for the wrong place all along. You
should know this to be true, boy, for you have made freer to speak ill
of Dumbledore than you ever dared speak ill of me. Even in your own
thoughts, I wager, for instinct runs deep. You knew that it might be to
your cost to mock the strong and vengeful Professor Quirrell, but that
there was no cost in disrespecting the weak and harmless Dumbledore.”

“Thank you,” Harry said through the pain, “for that valuable lesson,
Professor Quirrell, I see that you are right about what my mind was
doing.” Though Tom Riddle’s memories had probably also had something to
do with the way he had sometimes lashed out at Dumbledore for no good
reason, Harry hadn’t been like that around Professor McGonagall… who
admittedly had the power to deduct House Points and didn’t have
Dumbledore’s air of tolerance… no, it was still true, Harry would have
been more respectful even in his own thoughts if Dumbledore had not
seemed safe to disrespect.

So that had been David Monroe, and that had been Lord Voldemort…

It still hadn’t answered the most puzzling question, and Harry wasn’t
sure that asking it would be wise. If, somehow, Lord Voldemort had
managed not to think of it, and then Professor Quirrell had still
managed not to think of it during nine years of contemplation, then it
wasn’t wise to say… or maybe it was; the agonies of the Wizarding War
had not been good for Britain.

Harry decided, and spoke. “One thing that did confuse me was why the
Wizarding War lasted so long,” Harry ventured. “I mean, maybe I’m
underestimating the difficulties that were facing Lord Voldemort—”

“You want to know why I did not Imperius some of the stronger wizards
who could Imperius others, slay the very strongest wizards who could
have resisted my Imperius, and take over the Ministry in, oh, perhaps
three days.”

Harry nodded silently.

Professor Quirrell looked contemplative; his hand was sifting grass
clippings into the cauldron, bit by bit. That ingredient, if Harry
remembered correctly, was something like four-fifths towards the end of
the recipe.

“I wondered that myself,” the Defence Professor said finally, “when I
heard Trelawney’s prophecy from Snape, and I contemplated the past as
well as the future. If you had asked my past self why he did not use the
Imperius, he would have spoken of the need to be seen to rule, to openly
command the Ministry bureaucracy, before it was time to turn his eyes
outward to other countries. He would have remarked on how a quick and
silent victory might bring challenges later. He would have remarked on
the obstacle presented by Dumbledore and his incredible defensive
prowess. And he would have had similar excuses for every other quick
path he considered. Somehow it was never the right time to bring my
plans to their final phase, there was always one more thing to do first.
Then I heard the prophecy and I knew that it was time, for Time itself
was taking notice of me. That the span for hesitation was done. And I
looked back, and realised somehow this had been going on for years. I
think…” The occasional bit of grass was still dropping down from his
hand, but Professor Quirrell did not seem to pay it any mind. “I
thought, when I was contemplating my past beneath the starlight, that I
had become too accustomed to playing against Dumbledore. Dumbledore was
intelligent, he tried diligently to be cunning, he did not wait for me
to strike but presented me with surprises. He made bizarre moves that
played out in fascinating and unpredictable ways. In retrospect, there
were many obvious plans for destroying Dumbledore; but I think some part
of me did not want to go back to playing solitaire instead of chess. It
was when I had the prospect of creating another Tom Riddle to plot
against, someone even more worthy than Dumbledore, that I was first
willing to contemplate the end of my war. Yes, in retrospect that sounds
stupid, but sometimes our emotions are more foolish than we can bring
our reason to admit. I would never have espoused such a policy
deliberately. It would have violated Rules Nine, Sixteen, Twenty, and
Twenty-two and that is too much even if you are enjoying yourself. But
to repeatedly decide that there was one more thing left to be done, one
more advantage left to be gained, one more piece that I simply had to
move into place, before abandoning an enjoyable time in my life and
moving on to the more tedious rule of Britain… well, even I am not
immune to a mistake like that, if I do not realize that I am making it.”

And that was when Harry knew what was going to happen at the end of
this, after the Philosopher’s Stone had been retrieved.

At the end of this, Professor Quirrell was going to kill him.

Professor Quirrell didn’t want to kill him. It was possible that Harry
was the only person in the world against whom Professor Quirrell
wouldn’t be able to use a Killing Curse. But Professor Quirrell thought
he had to do it, for whatever reason.

That was why Professor Quirrell had decided that it was necessary to
brew the potion of effulgence the long way. That was why Professor
Quirrell had been so easily negotiated into answering these questions,
into finally talking about his life with someone who might understand.
Just like Lord Voldemort had delayed the end of the Wizarding War to
play longer against Dumbledore.

Harry couldn’t exactly recall what Professor Quirrell had said earlier
about not killing Harry. It hadn’t been anything straightforward along
the lines of ‘I am absolutely not planning to kill you in any way,
shape, or form unless you positively insist on doing something stupid’.
Harry had been reluctant himself to push the promise too far and insist
on unambiguous terms because Harry had already known that he would need
to neutralize Lord Voldemort and had expected more precise language to
reveal that fact, if they tried to exchange truly binding promises. So
there certainly would have been loopholes, whatever had been said.

There was no particular shock to the realization, just an increased
sense of urgency; some part of Harry had already known this, and had
simply been waiting for an excuse to make it known to deliberation.
There had been too many things said here that Professor Quirrell would
not reveal to anyone with an expected lifespan measured in more than
hours. The overwhelming isolation and loneliness of the life Professor
Quirrell had described might explain why he was willing to violate his
Rules and talk with Harry, given that Harry was going to die soon and
that the world did not actually work like a play where the villain
disclosing his plans would always fail to kill the hero afterwards. But
Harry’s death certainly had to be in those future plans somewhere.

Harry swallowed, controlling his breathing. Professor Quirrell had just
added a tuft of horsehair to the potion of effulgence, and that was very
late in the potion, if Harry remembered correctly. There weren’t many
bellflowers left in the heap to be added, either.

It was probably time to stop worrying so much about risk and play this
conversation less conservatively, all things considered.

“If I point out one of Lord Voldemort’s mistakes,” Harry said, “does he
punish me for it?”

Professor Quirrell lifted his eyebrows. “Not if the mistake is a real
one. I do not suggest that you moralise at me. But I would not curse the
bearer of bad news, nor the subordinate who makes an honest attempt to
point out a problem. Even as Lord Voldemort I could never bring myself
to that stupidity. Of course, there were some fools who mistook my
policy for weakness, who tried to thrust themselves forward by pushing
me down in their public counsel, thinking me obliged to tolerate it as
criticism.” Professor Quirrell smiled reminiscently. “The Death Eaters
were better off without them, and I do not advise you make the same
mistake.”

Harry nodded, a slight shiver going through him. “Um, when you told me
about what happened in Godric’s Hollow, on Halloween night, in 1981 I
mean, um… I thought I saw another flaw in your reasoning. A way you
could have avoided disaster. But, um, I think you have a blind spot, a
class of strategies you don’t consider, so you didn’t see it even
afterwards—”

“I hope you are not about to say anything stupid along the lines of
‘don’t try to kill people’,” Professor Quirrell said. “I shall be
unhappy if that is the case.”

“Not valuess difference. True misstake, given your goalss. Will you hurt
me, if I act the part of the teacher toward you, and teach lessson? Or
if misstake iss ssimple and obviouss, and makess you feel sstupid?”

“No,” hissed Professor Quirrell. “Not if lessson iss true.”

Harry swallowed. “Um. Why didn’t you test the horcrux system before you
actually had to use it?”

“Test it?” said Professor Quirrell. He looked up from the brewing
potion, and indignation came into his voice. “What do you mean, test
it?”

“Why didn’t you test if the horcrux system was working correctly, before
you needed it on Halloween?”

Professor Quirrell looked disgusted. “You ridiculous—I didn’t want to
die, Mr Potter, and that was the only way to test my great creation!
What good would it have done to risk my life sooner rather than later?
How would I have been better off?”

Harry swallowed a lump in his throat. “There wass way for you to tesst
your horcruxs ssysstem without dying. The general lesson is important.
Do you see it now?”

“No,” Professor Quirrell said after a while. The Defence Professor
gently crumbled one of the last bellflowers together with a strand of
long blonde hair and then dropped it into the potion, which was bubbling
brighter, now. Only two more bellflowers remained on the Potions table.
“And I do hope your lesson is a sensible one, for your sake.”

“Suppose, Professor, that I learned how to cast the improved horcrux
spell and I was willing to use it. What would I do with it?”

Professor Quirrell answered at once. “You would find some person whom
you found morally abhorrent and whose death you could convince yourself
would save other lives, and murder them to create a horcrux.”

“And then what?”

“Make more horcruxes,” said the Defence Professor. He picked up a jar of
what looked like dragon scales.

“Before that,” Harry said.

After a time the Defence Professor shook his head. “I still do not see
it, and you will cease this game and tell me.”

“I would make horcruxes for my friends. If you’d ever really cared about
one single other person in the entire world, if there’d been just one
person who gave your immortality meaning, someone that you wanted to
live forever with you—” Harry’s throat choked. “Then, then the idea of
making a horcrux for someone else wouldn’t have been such a
counterintuitive thought.” Harry was blinking hard. “You have a blind
spot around strategies that involve doing nice things for other people,
to the point where it stops you from achieving your selfish values. You
think… it’s not your style, I suppose. That… particular part of your
self-image… is what cost you those nine years.”

The dropper of mint oil that the Defence Professor was holding added
liquid to the cauldron, drip by drip.

“I see…” the Defence Professor said slowly. “I see. I should have taught
Rabastan the advanced horcrux ritual, and forced him to test the
invention. Yes, that is supremely obvious in retrospect. For that
matter, I could have ordered Rabastan to try marking himself onto some
disposable infant, to see what happened, before I took myself to
Godric’s Hollow to create you.” Professor Quirrell shook his head
bemusedly. “Well. I am glad I am realizing this now and not ten years
earlier; I had enough to chide myself for at that time.”

“You don’t see nice ways to do the things you want to do,” Harry said.
His ears heard a note of desperation in his own voice. “Even when a nice
strategy would be more effective you don’t see it because you have a
self-image of not being nice.”

“That is a fair observation,” said Professor Quirrell. “Indeed, now that
you have pointed it out, I have just now thought of some nice things I
can do this very day, to further my agenda.”

Harry just looked at him.

Professor Quirrell was smiling. “Your lesson is a good one, Mr Potter.
From now on, until I learn the trick of it, I shall keep diligent watch
for cunning strategies that involve doing kindnesses for other people.
Go and practise acts of goodwill, perhaps, until my mind goes there
easily.”

Cold chills ran down Harry’s spine.

Professor Quirrell had said this without the slightest visible
hesitation.

Lord Voldemort was absolutely certain that he could never be redeemed.
He wasn’t the tiniest bit afraid of it happening to him.

The second-to-last bellflower was dropped into the potion, gently.

“Any other valuable lessons you would like to teach to Lord Voldemort,
boy?” said Professor Quirrell. He was looking up from the potion, and
grinning as though he knew exactly what Harry was thinking.

“Yes,” Harry said, his voice almost breaking. “If your goal is to obtain
happiness, then doing nice things for other people feels better than
doing them for yourself—”

“Do you really think I never thought of that, boy?” The smile had
vanished. “Do you think I am stupid? After graduating Hogwarts I
wandered the world for years, before I returned to Britain as Lord
Voldemort. I have put on more faces than I bothered counting. Do you
think I never tried to play the hero, just to see how it would feel?
Have you come across the name of Alexander Chernyshov? Under that guise,
I sought out a forlorn hellhole ruled over by a Dark Wizard, and I freed
the wretched inhabitants from their bondage. They wept tears of
gratitude for me. It did not feel like anything in particular. I even
stayed about and killed the next five Dark Wizards to try taking command
of the place. I spent my own Galleons—well, not my own Galleons, but the
same principle applies—to prettify their little country and introduce a
semblance of order. They grovelled all the more, and named one in three
of their infants Alexander. I still felt nothing, so I nodded to myself,
wrote it off as a fair try, and went upon my way.”

“And were you happy as Lord Voldemort, then?” Harry’s voice had risen,
grown wild.

Professor Quirrell hesitated, then shrugged. “It appears you already
know the answer to that.”

“Then why? Why be Voldemort if it doesn’t even make you happy?” Harry’s
voice broke. “I’m you, I’m based on you, so I know that Professor
Quirrell isn’t just a mask! I know he’s somebody you really could have
been! Why not just stay that way? Take your curse off the Defence
Position and just stay here, use the Philosopher’s Stone to take David
Monroe’s shape and let the real Quirinus Quirrell go free, if you say
you’ll stop killing people I’ll swear not to tell anyone who you really
are, just be Professor Quirrell, for always! Your students would
appreciate you, my father’s students appreciate him—”

Professor Quirrell was chuckling over the cauldron as he stirred it.
“There are perhaps fifteen thousand wizards living in magical Britain,
child. There used to be more. There’s a reason they’re afraid to speak
my name. You’d forgive me that because you liked my Battle Magic
lessons?”

Seconded, said Harry’s inner Hufflepuff. Seriously, what the hell?

Harry kept his head raised, though it was trembling. “It’s not my place
to forgive anything you’ve done. But it’s better than another war.”

“Ha,” said the Defence Professor. “If you ever find a Time-Turner that
goes back forty years and can alter history, be sure to tell Dumbledore
that before he rejects Tom Riddle’s application for the Defence
position. But alas, I fear that Professor Riddle would not have found
lasting happiness in Hogwarts.”

“Why not?”

“Because I still would’ve been surrounded by idiots, and I wouldn’t have
been able to kill them,” Professor Quirrell said mildly. “Killing idiots
is my great joy in life, and I’ll thank you not to speak ill of it until
you’ve tried it for yourself.”

“There’s something that would make you happier than that,” Harry said,
his voice breaking again. “There has to be.”

“Why?” said Professor Quirrell. “Is this some scientific law I have not
yet encountered? Tell me of it.”

Harry opened his mouth, but couldn’t find any words, there had to be
something had to be something if he could just find the right thing to
say—

“And you,” said Professor Quirrell, “have no right to speak of happiness
either. Happiness is not what you hold precious above all. You decided
that in the beginning, all the way back in the beginning of this year,
when the Sorting Hat offered you Hufflepuff. Which I know about, because
I received a similar offer and warning all those years ago, and I
refused it just as you did. Beyond this there is little more to say,
between Tom Riddles.” The Defence Professor turned back to the cauldron.

Before Harry could think of any way to reply, Professor Quirrell dropped
in the last bellflower, and a burst of glowing bubbles boiled up from
the cauldron.

“I believe we are done here,” Professor Quirrell said. “If you have
further questions, they must wait.”

Harry shakily rose to his feet; even as Professor Quirrell took up the
cauldron and poured out a ridiculously huge volume of effulgent liquid,
more than seemed like it could fit in a dozen cauldrons, onto the purple
fire that guarded the doorway.

The purple fire winked out.

“Now for the Mirror,” said Professor Quirrell, and he drew forth the
Cloak of Invisibility from his robes, and floated it to drop before
Harry’s shoes.

109. Reflections, Part I

EVEN the greatest artefact can be defeated by a counter-artefact that is
lesser, but specialized.

That was what the Defence Professor had told Harry, after dropping the
True Cloak of Invisibility to pool in fuliginous folds near Harry’s
shoes.

The Mirror of Perfect Reflection has power over what is reflected within
it, and that power is said to be unchallengeable. But since the True
Cloak of Invisibility produces a perfect absence of image, it should
evade this principle rather than challenging it.

There had followed a series of questions in Parseltongue establishing
that Harry currently did not intend to do anything stupid or try to run
away, and further reminders that Professor Quirrell could sense him and
had spells to detect the Cloak and was holding hostage hundreds of lives
plus Hermione.

Then Harry was told to don the Cloak, open the door that lay beyond the
quenched fires, and advance through the door into the final chamber; as
Professor Quirrell stood well back, outside of that door’s sight.

The last chamber was illuminated in lights of soft gold, and the stone
walls were of gentle white and faced with marble.

In the centre of the room stood a simple and unornamented golden frame,
and within the frame was a portal to another gold-illuminated room,
beyond whose door which lay another Potions chamber; that was what
Harry’s brain told him. The Mirror’s transformation of light was so
perfect that conscious thought was required to deduce that the room
inside the frame was only a reflection, rather than a portal. (Though it
might have been easier to intuit if Harry hadn’t been invisible, just
then.)

The Mirror did not touch the ground; the golden frame had no feet. It
didn’t look like it was hovering; it looked like it was fixed in place,
more solid and more motionless than the walls themselves, like it was
nailed to the reference frame of the Earth’s motion.

“Is the Mirror there? Is it moving?” came Professor Quirrell’s
commanding voice from the Potions Chamber.

“Iss there,” Harry hissed back. “Not moving.”

Again tones of command rang forth. “Walk around to the back of the
Mirror.”

From behind, the golden frame appeared solid, showing no reflections,
and Harry said so in Parseltongue.

“Now take off your Cloak,” commanded Professor Quirrell’s voice still
from within the Potions room. “Report to me at once if the Mirror moves
to face you.”

Harry took off his Cloak.

The Mirror remained nailed to the reference frame of Earth’s motion; and
Harry reported this.

Shortly after there came a hissing and seething, and a balefire phœnix
melted through the marble wall behind Harry, the ambient light in the
room taking on a red tinge as it entered. Professor Quirrell followed
behind it, walking out of the new-made corridor that had been carved,
his black formal shoes unharmed by the red-glowing molten surface
beneath. “Well,” Professor Quirrell said, “that is one possible trap
averted. And now…” Professor Quirrell exhaled. “Now we will think of
possible strategies for retrieving the Stone from the Mirror, and you
will try them; for I prefer not to let my own image be reflected. I give
you fair warning, this is the part that may prove tedious.”

“I take it this isn’t a problem you can solve with Fiendfyre?”

“Ha,” said Professor Quirrell, and gestured.

The balefire phœnix moved forward in a rush of crimson terror, the red
light casting writhing shadows on the remaining marble walls. Harry
jumped back before he could think.

The dreadful dark-red blaze rushed past Professor Quirrell, surged into
the golden back of the Mirror, and disappeared as fast as it touched the
gold.

Then the fire was gone, and the room was tinged scarlet no more.

There was no scratch upon the golden surface, no glow to mark the
absorption of heat. The Mirror had simply remained in place, untouched.

Chills went down Harry’s spine. If he’d been playing Dungeons and
Dragons and the dungeon master had reported that result, Harry would
have suspected a mental illusion, and rolled to disbelieve.

Upon the centre of the golden back had appeared a sequence of runes in
no known alphabet, black absences of light in small lines and curves,
arranged in a level horizontal row. The thought occurred to Harry that
some minor concealing illusion had been consumed in the Fiendfyre, a far
lesser enchantment that had been added to prevent children from seeing
those letters…

“How old is this Mirror?” Harry said in almost a whisper.

“Nobody knows, Mr Potter.” The Defence Professor reached out his fingers
toward the runes, a look of something like reverence on his face; but
his fingers did not touch the gold. “But my guess is the same as yours,
I think. It is said, in certain legends that may or may not be
fabrications, that this Mirror reflects itself perfectly and therefore
its existence is absolutely stable. So stable that the Mirror was able
to survive when every other effect of Atlantis was undone, all its
consequences severed from Time. You can see why I was amused when you
suggested Fiendfyre.” The Defence Professor let his hand fall.

Even in the middle of everything else, Harry felt the awe, if that was
true. The golden frame gleamed no brighter than before, for all the
revelation; but you could imagine it going back, and back, into a
civilization that had been made to never be… “What—does the Mirror do,
exactly?”

“An excellent question,” said Professor Quirrell. “The answer is in the
runes that are written upon the Mirror’s golden back. Read them to me.”

“They’re not in any alphabet I recognize. They look like randomly
oriented chicken-scratches drawn by Tolkien elves.”

“Read them anyway. Iss not dangerouss.”

“The runes say, noitilov detalo partxe tnere hoc ruoy tu becafruoy ton
wo hsi—” Harry stopped, feeling more prickles at his spine.

Harry knew what the rune for noitilov meant. It meant noitilov. And the
next runes said to detalo the noitilov until it reached partxe, then
keep the part that was both tnere and hoc. That belief felt like
knowledge, like he could have answered ‘Yes’ with confident authority if
somebody asked him whether the ton wo was ruoy or becafruoy. It was just
that when Harry tried to relate those concepts to any other concepts, he
drew a blank.

“Do you undersstand what wordss mean, boy?”

“Don’t think sso.”

Professor Quirrell gave a soft exhalation, his eyes not leaving the
golden frame. “I had wondered if perhaps the Words of False
Comprehension might be understandable to a student of Muggle science.
Apparently not.”

“Maybe—” Harry began.

Really, Ravenclaw? said Slytherin. You’re pulling this now?

“Maybe I could try again to understand the words if I knew more about
the Mirror?” said Harry’s Ravenclaw part, which had assumed direct
control.

Professor Quirrell’s lips twitched upwards. “As with most ancient
things, scholars have written down enough lies that it is hard to be
sure of anything by now. It is definite that the Mirror is at least as
old as Merlin, for it is known that Merlin used it as a tool. It is also
known that after his death, Merlin left written instructions that the
Mirror did not need to be sealed away, despite it having certain powers
that might normally cause one to worry. He wrote that, given how
painstakingly the Mirror had been crafted to not destroy the world, it
would be easier to destroy the world using a lump of cheese.”

This statement struck Harry as not entirely reassuring.

“Certain other facts about the Mirror are attested by famous wizards who
were reasonably skeptical, and whose word has otherwise proven reliable.
The Mirror’s most characteristic power is to create alternate realms of
existence, though these realms are only as large in size as what can be
seen within the Mirror; it is known that people and other objects can be
stored therein. It is claimed by several authorities that the Mirror
alone of all magics possesses a true moral orientation, though I am not
sure what that could mean in practical terms. I would expect moralists
to call the Cruciatus Curse by their name of ‘evil’ and the Patronus
Charm by their name of ‘good’; I cannot guess what a moralist would
think was any more moral than that. But it is claimed, for example, that
phœnixes came into our world from a realm that was evoked inside this
Mirror.”

Words like crikey and what his parents would have termed inappropriate
language were all running through Harry’s head, none very coherently, as
he stared at the golden back of the Mirror.

“I have wandered the world and encountered many stories that are not
often heard,” said Professor Quirrell. “Most of them seemed to me to be
lies, but a few had the ring of history rather than storytelling. Upon a
wall of metal in a place where no-one had come for centuries, I found
written the claim that some Atlanteans foresaw their world’s end, and
sought to forge a device of great power to avert the inevitable
catastrophe. If that device had been completed, the story claimed, it
would have become an absolutely stable existence that could withstand
the channelling of unlimited magic in order to grant wishes. And
also—this was said to be the vastly harder task—the device would somehow
avert the inevitable catastrophes any sane person would expect to follow
from that premise. The aspect I found interesting was that, according to
the tale writ upon those metal plates, the rest of Atlantis ignored this
project and went upon their ways. It was sometimes praised as a noble
public endeavour, but nearly all other Atlanteans found more important
things to do on any given day than help. Even the Atlantean nobles
ignored the prospect of somebody other than themselves obtaining
unchallengeable power, which a less experienced cynic might expect to
catch their attention. With relatively little support, the tiny handful
of would-be makers of this device laboured under working conditions that
were not so much dramatically arduous, as pointlessly annoying.
Eventually time ran out and Atlantis was destroyed with the device still
far from complete. I recognise certain echoes of my own experience that
one does not usually see invented in mere tales.” A twist in the dry
smile. “But perhaps that is merely my own preference for one tale among
a hundred other legends. You perceive, however, the echo of Merlin’s
statement about the Mirror’s creators shaping it to not destroy the
world. Most importantly for our purposes, it may explain why the Mirror
would have the previously unknown capability that Dumbledore or
Perenelle seems to have evoked, of showing any person who steps before
it an illusion of a world in which one of their desires has been
fulfilled. It is the sort of sensible precaution you can imagine someone
building into a wish-granting creation meant to not go horribly wrong.”

“Wow,” Harry whispered, and meant it. This was Magic with a capital M,
the sort of Magic that appeared in So You Want To Be A Wizard, not just
a collection of random physics-violating things you could do with a
wand.

Professor Quirrell gestured at the golden back. “The final property upon
which most tales agree, is that whatever the unknown means of commanding
the Mirror—of that Key there are no plausible accounts—the Mirror’s
instructions cannot be shaped to react to individual people. So it is
not possible for Perenelle to command this Mirror, ‘only give the Stone
to Perenelle’. Dumbledore cannot state, ‘Only give the Stone to one who
wishes to give it to Nicholas Flamel’. There is in the Mirror a
blindness such as philosophers have attributed to ideal justice; it must
treat all who come before it by the same rule, whatever rule may be in
force. Thus, there must be some rule for reaching the Stone’s
hiding-place which anyone can invoke. And now you see why you, called
the Boy-Who-Lived, shall implement whatever strategies the two of us
devise. For it was said that this thing possesses a moral orientation,
and it may have been given commands reflecting the same. I am well aware
that on conventional terms you are said to be Good, just as I am said to
be Evil.” Professor Quirrell smiled, rather darkly. “So as our first
attempt—though not our last, rest assured—let us see what this Mirror
makes of your attempt to retrieve the Stone in order to save the life of
Hermione Granger and hundreds of your fellow students.”

“And the first version of that plan,” said Harry, who was beginning to
finally understand, “the one you invented on Friday in my first week of
Hogwarts, called for the Stone to be retrieved by Dumbledore’s golden
child, the Boy-Who-Lived, making a selfless and noble attempt to save
the life of his dying Defence teacher, Professor Quirrell.”

“Of course,” said Professor Quirrell.

It was a poetical sort of plot, Harry supposed, but his appreciation of
that elegance was being hampered by the surrounding circumstances.

Then another thought occurred to Harry.

“Um,” Harry said. “You think that this Mirror is a trap for you—”

“There is no way beneath the heavens that it is not meant as a trap.”

“That is to say, it’s a trap for Lord Voldemort. Only it can’t be a trap
for him personally. There has to be a general rule that underlies it,
some generalizable quality of Lord Voldemort that triggers it.” Without
conscious awareness, Harry was frowning hard at the Mirror’s golden
back.

“As you say,” said Professor Quirrell, who was beginning to frown at
Harry’s frowning.

“Well, on the first Thursday of this year, the mad Headmaster
Dumbledore, who I’d just seen incinerate a chicken, told me that I had
no chance whatsoever of getting into his forbidden corridor, since I
didn’t know the spell Alohomora.”

“I see,” said Professor Quirrell. “Oh, dear. I wish you had thought to
mention this to me a good deal earlier.”

Neither of them needed to state aloud the obvious, that this bit of
reverse reverse psychology had successfully ensured that Harry would
stay the heck away from Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor.

Harry was still concentrating. “Do you think Dumbledore suspects that I
am, in his terms, a horcrux of Lord Voldemort, or more generally, that
some aspects of my personality were copied off Lord Voldemort?” Even as
Harry asked this aloud, he realized what a dumb question it was, and how
much completely blatant evidence he’d already seen that—

“Dumbledore cannot possibly have missed it,” said Professor Quirrell.
“It is not exactly subtle. What else is Dumbledore to think, that you
are an actor in a play whose stupid author has never met a real
eleven-year-old? Only a gibbering dullard would believe that—ah, never
mind.”

The two of them stared at the Mirror in silence.

Finally Professor Quirrell sighed. “I have outwitted myself, I fear.
Neither you nor I dare be reflected in this Mirror. I suppose I must
command Professor Sprout to undo my Obliviations of Mr Nott and
Miss Greengrass… You see, the other great difficulty of the Mirror is
that the rule by which it treats those reflected will disregard external
forces, such as False Memories or a Confundus Charm. The Mirror reflects
only those forces arising from within the person themselves, the states
of mind they arrive at through their own choices; so it is said in
several places. That is why I had Mr Nott and Miss Greengrass, believing
different stories about why the Stone’s extraction was necessary, ready
to appear before this Mirror.” Professor Quirrell rubbed at the bridge
of his nose. “I constructed other stories for other students, ready for
me to set into motion with the chosen trigger… but as this day
approached, I began to feel pessimistic about the project. Such as Nott
and Greengrass still seem worth trying, if we cannot think of something
better. But I wonder if Dumbledore has tried to construct this puzzle to
specifically resist Voldemort’s cunning. I wonder if he might have
succeeded. If you devise an alternative plan which I approve enough to
try, I promisse that whatever pawn I ssend forth sshall not be harmed by
me, then or ever; nor do I exspect to break that promisse. And I remind
you again of the hostages I hold to my failure, both Miss Granger and
all the others.”

Again they stared at the mirror in silence, the elder Tom Riddle and the
younger.

“I suspect, Professor,” Harry said after a time, “that your entire class
of hypotheses about somebody needing to want the Stone for good or
honest purposes is mistaken. The Headmaster wouldn’t set a retrieval
rule like that.”

“Why?”

“Because Dumbledore knows how easy it is to end up believing that you’re
doing the right thing when you’re actually not. It’d be the first
possibility he imagined.”

“Iss it truth or trickery that I hear?”

“Am being honesst,” Harry said.

Professor Quirrell nodded. “Then your point is well taken.”

“I’m not sure why you think this puzzle is solvable,” Harry said. “Just
set a rule like, your left hand must hold a small blue pyramid and two
large red pyramids, and your right hand must be squeezing mayonnaise
onto a hamster—”

“No,” Professor Quirrell said. “No, I think not. The legends are unclear
on what rules can be given, but I think it must have something to do
with the Mirror’s original intended use—it must have something to do
with the deep desires and wishes arising from within the person.
Squeezing mayonnaise onto a hamster will not qualify as that, for most
people.”

“Huh,” Harry said. “Maybe the rule is that the person has to not want to
use the Stone at all—no, that’s too easy, the story you gave Mr Nott
solves it.”

“In some ways you may understand Dumbledore better than I,” said
Professor Quirrell. “So now I ask you this: how would Dumbledore use his
notion of the acceptance of death to guard this Stone? For that above
all he thinks I cannot comprehend, and he is not far wrong.”

Harry thought about this for a while, considering several ideas and
discarding them. And then, having thought of something, Harry considered
remaining silent… before mapping out the obvious part of the future
conversation where Professor Quirrell asked him to say in Parseltongue
if he’d thought of something.

Reluctantly, Harry spoke. “Would Dumbledore think that this Mirror could
reach the afterlife? Could he put the Stone into something that he
thinks is an afterlife, so that only people who believe in an afterlife
can see it?”

“Hm…” Professor Quirrell said. “Possibly… yes, there is a certain
plausibility to it. Using this setting of the Mirror to show people
their heart’s desires… Albus Dumbledore would see himself reunited with
his family. He would see himself united with them in death, wanting to
die himself rather than wishing for them to be returned to life. His
brother Aberforth, his sister Ariana, his parents Kendra and Percival…
it would be Aberforth to whom Dumbledore gave the Stone, I think. Would
the Mirror recognize that Aberforth particularly had been given the
Stone? Or will any person’s dead relative do, if that person believes
their relative’s spirit would give them back the Stone?” Professor
Quirrell was pacing in a short circle, keeping well away from Harry and
the Mirror as he moved. “But all this is only one idea. Let us devise
another.”

Harry began to tap his cheek, then stopped abruptly as he realized where
he’d picked up that gesture. “What if Perenelle is the one who put the
Stone in here? Maybe she keyed the Mirror to give the Stone only to the
person who put it in originally.”

“Perenelle has lived this long by knowing her limitations,” said
Professor Quirrell. “She does not overestimate her own intellect, she is
not prideful, if that were so she would have lost the Stone long ago.
Perenelle will not try to think of a good Mirror-rule herself, not when
Master Flamel can leave the matter in Dumbledore’s wiser hands… but the
rule of only returning the Stone to the one who remembers placing it,
also works if Dumbledore himself has placed the Stone. It would be a
hard rule to bypass, since I cannot simply Confund someone into
believing that they put in the Stone… I would have to create a false
Stone, and a false Mirror, and arrange the drama…” Professor Quirrell
was frowning, now. “But it is still something that Dumbledore would
imagine Voldemort being able to arrange, given time. If at all possible,
Dumbledore will want to make the key to the Mirror a state of mind he
thinks I cannot arrange in a pawn—or a rule that Dumbledore thinks
Voldemort can never comprehend, such as a rule involving the acceptance
of one’s own death. That is why I considered your previous idea
plausible.”

Then Harry had an idea.

He was not sure if it was a good idea.

…it wasn’t like Harry had a lot of choice here.

“Arguendo,” Harry said. “We’re not sure what’s necessary to retrieve the
Stone. But a sufficient condition should involve Albus Dumbledore, or
maybe someone else, in a state of mind where they believe that the Dark
Lord has been defeated, that the threat is over, and that it is time to
take out the Stone and give it back to Nicholas Flamel. We aren’t sure
which part of that person’s state of mind, let’s say Dumbledore’s, will
be the necessary part that he thinks Lord Voldemort can’t understand or
duplicate; but under those conditions Dumbledore’s entire state of mind
will be sufficient.”

“Reasonable,” said Professor Quirrell. “So?”

“The corresponding strategy,” Harry said carefully, “is to mimic
Dumbledore’s state of mind under those conditions, in as much detail as
possible, while standing in front of the mirror. And this state of mind
must have been produced by internal forces, not external ones.”

“But how are we to get that without Legilimency or the Confundus Charm,
both of which would certainly be external—ha. I see.” Professor
Quirrell’s ice-pale eyes were suddenly piercing. “You suggest that I
Confund myself, as you cast that hex upon yourself during your first day
in Battle Magic. So that it is an internal force and not an external
one, a state of mind that comes about through only my own choices. Say
to me whether you have made this suggestion with the intention of
trapping me, boy. Say it to me in Parseltongue.”

“My mind that you assked to devisse sstrategy may perhapss have been
influenced by ssuch an intent—who knowss? Knew you would be
ssusspiciouss, assk thiss very quesstion. Decission iss up to you,
teacher. I know nothing you do not know, about whether thiss iss likely
to trap you. Do not call it betrayal by me if you choosse thiss for
yoursself, and it failss.” Harry felt a strong impulse to smile, and
suppressed it.

“Lovely,” said Professor Quirrell, who was smiling. “I suppose there are
some threats from an inventive mind that even questioning in
Parseltongue cannot neutralize.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry put on the Cloak of Invisibility, at Professor Quirrell’s orders,
to sstop the man who sshall believe himsself to be sschoolmasster from
sseeing you, as Professor Quirrell said in Parseltongue.

“Wearing the Cloak or no, you will stand in range of the Mirror
yourself,” Professor Quirrell said. “If a gush of lava comes forth, you
will also burn. I feel that much symmetry should apply.”

Professor Quirrell pointed to a spot near the right of the door through
which they’d entered the room, before the Mirror and well back of it.
Harry, wearing the Cloak, went to where Professor Quirrell had pointed
him, and did not argue. It was increasingly unclear to Harry whether
both Riddles dying here would be a bad thing, even with hundreds of
other student hostages at stake. For all of Harry’s good intentions,
he’d mostly shown himself so far to be an idiot, and the returned Lord
Voldemort was a threat to the entire world.

(Though either way, Harry couldn’t see Dumbledore doing the lava thing.
Dumbledore was probably sufficiently angry at Voldemort to discard his
usual restraint, but lava wouldn’t permanently stop an entity that
Dumbledore believed to be a discorporate soul.)

Then Professor Quirrell pointed with his wand, and a shimmering circle
appeared around where Harry was standing on the floor. This, Professor
Quirrell said, would soon become a Greater Circle of Concealment, by
which nothing within that circle could be heard or seen from the
outside. Harry would not be able to make himself apparent to the false
Dumbledore by taking off the Cloak, nor by shouting.

“You will not cross this circle once it is active,” Professor Quirrell
said. “That would cause you to touch my magic, and while Confunded I
might not remember how to halt the resonance that would destroy us both.
And further, since I do not want you throwing shoes—” Professor Quirrell
made another gesture, and just within the Greater Circle of Concealment,
a slight shimmer appeared in the air, a globe-shaped distortion. “Thiss
barrier will exsplode if touched, by you or other material thing. The
resonance might lash at me afterwards, but you would also be dead. Now
tell me in Parseltongue that you do not intend to cross this circle or
take off your Cloak or do anything at all impulsive or stupid. Tell me
you will wait quietly here, under the Cloak, until this is over.”

This Harry repeated back.

Then Professor Quirrell’s robes became black tinged with gold, such
robes as Dumbledore might wear upon a formal occasion; and Professor
Quirrell pointed his own wand at his head.

Professor Quirrell stayed motionless for a long time, still holding his
wand to his head. His eyes were closed in concentration.

And then Professor Quirrell said, “Confundus.”

At once the expression of the man standing there changed; he blinked a
few times as though confused, lowering his wand.

A deep weariness spread over the face Professor Quirrell had worn;
without any visible change his eyes seemed older, the few lines in his
face calling attention to themselves.

His lips were set in a sad smile.

Without any hurry, the man quietly walked over to the Mirror, as though
he had all the time in the world.

He crossed into the Mirror’s range of reflection without anything
happening, and stared into the surface.

What the man might be seeing there, Harry could not tell; to Harry it
seemed that the flat, perfect surface still reflected the room behind
it, like a portal to another place.

“Ariana,” breathed the man. “Mother, father. And you, my brother, it is
done.”

The man stood still, as if listening.

“Yes, done,” the man said. “Voldemort came before this mirror, and was
trapped by Merlin’s method. He is only one more sealed horror now.”

Again the listening stillness.

“I would that I could obey you, my brother, but it is better this way.”
The man bowed his head. “He is denied his death, forever; that vengeance
is terrible enough.”

Harry felt a twinge, watching this, a sense that this was not what
Dumbledore would have said, it seemed more like a strawman, a shallow
stereotype… but then this wasn’t the real Aberforth’s spirit either,
this was who Professor Quirrell imagined Dumbledore imagined Aberforth
was, and that doubly-reflected image of Aberforth wouldn’t notice
anything amiss…

“It is time to give back the Philosopher’s Stone,” said the man who
thought he was Dumbledore. “It must go back into Master Flamel’s
keeping, now.”

Listening stillness.

“No,” said the man, “Master Flamel has kept it safe these many years
from all who would seek immortality, and I think it will be safest in
his hands… no, Aberforth, I do think his intentions are good.”

Harry couldn’t control the tension that was running through him like a
live wire; he was having trouble breathing. Imperfect, Professor
Quirrell’s Confundus Charm had been imperfect. The underlying
personality of Professor Quirrell was leaking through and seeing the
obvious question: why was it okay for Nicholas Flamel himself to have
the Stone if immortality was so awful? Even if Professor Quirrell
imagined Dumbledore was blind to the question, he hadn’t included a
clause in the Confundus saying that Dumbledore’s image of Aberforth
wouldn’t think of it; and all of this was ultimately a reflection of
Professor Quirrell’s own mind, an image from within the intelligence of
Tom Riddle…

“Destroy it?” said the man. “Maybe. I am not sure it can be destroyed,
or Master Flamel would have done it long since. I think, many times,
that he has regretted making it… Aberforth, I promised him, and we are
not so ancient or so wise ourselves. The Philosopher’s Stone must go
back into the keeping of the one who made it.”

And Harry’s breath stopped.

The man was holding an irregular chunk of scarlet glass in his left
hand, the size perhaps of Harry’s thumb from fingernail to the first
joint. The surface sheen of the scarlet glass made it seem wet; the
appearance was of blood, suspended in time and made into a jagged
surface.

“Thank you, my brother,” the man said quietly.

Is that what the Stone should look like? Does Professor Quirrell know
what the true Stone should look like? Will the Mirror give back the real
Stone under these conditions, or make an imitation and return that?

And then—

“No, Ariana,” the man said, smiling gently, “I fear I must go now. Be
patient, my dearest, it will be soon enough that I join you in truth…
why? Why, I am not sure why I must go… when I hold the Stone I am to
step aside from the Mirror and wait for Master Flamel to contact me, but
I am not sure why I need to step aside from the Mirror to do that…” The
man sighed. “Ah, I am getting old. It is well this dreadful war ended
when it did. I suppose there is no harm if I speak to you for a time, my
dearest, if you wish it so.”

A headache was starting behind Harry’s eyes; some part of Harry was
trying to send a message about not having breathed in a while, but
no-one was listening. Imperfect, Professor Quirrell’s Confundus Charm
had been imperfect, Professor Quirrell’s image of Dumbledore’s image of
Ariana wanted to talk to Dumbledore, and maybe didn’t want to wait
because Professor Quirrell knew on some level that there wasn’t really
an afterlife, and the previously implanted impulse to leave after
getting the Stone wasn’t standing up to Riddle-Ariana’s arguments…

And then Harry felt himself become very calm. He started breathing
again.

Either way, there wasn’t much Harry could do about it. Professor
Quirrell had stopped Harry from intervening; well, Professor Quirrell
was welcome to reap the consequences of that decision. If the
consequences caught Harry as well, so be it.

The man who thought he was Dumbledore was mostly nodding patiently,
sometimes replying to his dearest sister. Sometimes the man cast an
uneasy look to one side; as if feeling a strong impulse to go, but
suppressing that impulse with the great patience and politeness and
concern for his sister that Professor Quirrell imagined Albus Dumbledore
having.

Harry saw it the instant the Confundus wore off, and the man’s
expression changed, becoming again the face of Professor Quirrell.

And in the same instant the Mirror changed, no longer showing Harry the
reflection of the room, showing instead the form of the real Albus
Dumbledore, as though he were standing just behind the Mirror and
visible through it.

The real Dumbledore’s face was set, and grim.

“Hello, Tom,” said Albus Dumbledore.

110. Reflections, Part II

THE grimness on Albus Dumbledore’s face lasted only an instant before
giving way to bewilderment. “Quirinus? What—”

And then there was a pause.

“Well,” said Albus Dumbledore. “I do feel stupid.”

“I should hope so,” Professor Quirrell said easily; if he had been at
all shocked himself at being caught, it did not show. A casual wave of
his hand changed his robes back to a Professor’s clothing.

Dumbledore’s grimness had returned and redoubled. “There I am, searching
so hard for Voldemort’s shade, never noticing that the Defence Professor
of Hogwarts is a sickly, half-dead victim possessed by a spirit far more
powerful than himself. I would call it senility, if so many others had
not missed it as well.”

“Quite,” said Professor Quirrell. He lifted his eyebrows. “Really, am I
that hard to recognise without the glowing red eyes?”

“Oh, yes indeed,” Albus Dumbledore said in level tones. “Your acting was
perfect; I confess myself utterly deceived. Quirinus Quirrell
seemed—what is the term I am looking for? Ah yes, that is the word. He
seemed sane.”

Professor Quirrell chuckled; he looked for all the world as though the
two of them were just having a casual conversation. “I never was insane,
you know. Lord Voldemort was just another game for me, the same as
Professor Quirrell.”

Albus Dumbledore did not look like he was enjoying a casual chat. “I
thought you might say that. I regret to inform you, Tom, that anyone who
can bring himself to act the part of Voldemort is Voldemort.”

“Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, raising an admonishing finger. “There is
a loophole in that reasoning, old man. Anyone who acts the part of
Voldemort must be what moralists call ‘evil’, on this we agree. But
perhaps the real me is completely, utterly, irredeemably evil in an
interestingly different fashion from what I was pretending with
Voldemort—”

“I find,” Albus Dumbledore ground out, “that I do not care.”

“Then you must think yourself to be rid of me very soon,” said Professor
Quirrell. “How interesting. My immortal existence must depend on
discovering what trap you have set, and finding a way to escape from it,
as soon as possible.” Professor Quirrell paused. “But let us pointlessly
delay to talk of other matters first. How did you come to be waiting
inside the Mirror? I thought you would be elsewhere.”

“I am there,” Albus Dumbledore said, “and also inside the Mirror,
unfortunately for you. I have always been here, all along.”

“Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, and sighed. “I suppose my little
distraction was for naught, then.”

And the rage of Albus Dumbledore was no longer leashed. “Distraction?”
roared Dumbledore, his sapphire eyes tight with fury. “You killed Master
Flamel for a distraction?”

Professor Quirrell looked dismayed. “I am wounded by the injustice of
your accusation. I did not kill the one you know as Flamel. I simply
commanded another to do so.”

“How could you? Even you, how could you? He was the library of all our
lore! Secrets you have forever lost to wizardry!”

There was an edge to Professor Quirrell’s smile, now. “You know, I still
do not comprehend how your twisted mind can consider it acceptable for
Flamel to be immortal, but when I seek the same it makes me a monster.”

“Master Flamel never descended into immortality! He—” Dumbledore choked.
“He only stayed awake past his evening, for our sakes, through his long,
long day—”

“I don’t know if you recall this,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice
airy, “but do you recall that day in your office with Tom Riddle? The
one where I begged you, where I went down on my knees and begged you, to
introduce me to Nicholas Flamel so that I could ask to become his
apprentice, to some day make for myself the Philosopher’s Stone? That
was my last attempt to be a good person, if you are curious. You told me
no, and gave me a lecture on how disgraceful it was to be afraid of
death. I went from your office in bitterness and in fury. I reasoned
that if I was to be called evil in any case, just for not wanting to
die, then I might as well be evil; and one month later I killed Abigail
Myrtle to pursue immortality by other means. Even when I knew more of
Flamel, I remained quite put out with your hypocrisy; and for that
reason I tormented you and yours more than I otherwise would have done.
I have often felt that you ought to know this, but we never had a chance
to talk frankly.”

“I decline,” said Albus Dumbledore, whose gaze did not waver. “I do not
accept the tiniest shred of responsibility for what you have become.
That was all, entirely, you and your own decisions.”

“I am not surprised to hear you say that,” said Professor Quirrell.
“Well, now I am curious as to what responsibilities you do accept. You
have access to some unusual power of Divination; that much I deduced
long ago. You made too many nonsensical moves, and the paths by which
they worked out in your favour were too ridiculous. So tell me. Were you
forewarned of the result, that night of All Hallow’s Eve when I was
vanquished for a time?”

“I knew,” said Albus Dumbledore, his voice low and cold. “For that, I
accept responsibility, which is something you will never understand.”

“You arranged for Severus Snape to hear the Prophecy that he brought to
me.”

“I allowed it to happen,” said Albus Dumbledore.

“And there I was, all excited at having finally gained my own
foreknowledge.” Professor Quirrell shook his head as though in sadness.
“So the great hero Dumbledore sacrificed his unwitting pawns, Lily and
James Potter, merely to banish me for a few years.”

Albus Dumbledore’s eyes were like stones. “James and Lily would have
gone willingly to the death, if they had known.”

“And the little baby?” Professor Quirrell said. “Somehow I doubt the
Potters would have been so eager to leave him in the path of
You-Know-Who.”

You could scarcely see the flinch. “The Boy-Who-Lived came out of it
well enough. Tried to turn him into you, did you? Instead you turned
yourself into a corpse, and Harry Potter became the wizard you should
have been.” Now there was something like the usual Dumbledore behind the
half-moon glasses, a tiny twinkle in those eyes. “All of Tom Riddle’s
icy brilliance, tamed to the service of James and Lily’s warmth and
love. I wonder how you felt when you saw what Tom Riddle could have
become, if he had grown up in a loving family?”

Professor Quirrell’s lips twitched. “I was surprised, even shocked, by
the abyssal depths of Mr Potter’s naivete.”

“I suppose the humour of the situation would be lost on you.” It was
then, finally, that Albus Dumbledore smiled. “How I laughed when I
realised it! When I saw you had made a Good Voldemort to oppose the evil
one—ah, how I laughed! I never had the steel for my role, but Harry
Potter shall be more than equal to it, when he comes into his power.”
Albus Dumbledore’s smile disappeared. “Though I suppose Harry shall have
to find some other Dark Lord to vanquish for it, since you will not be
there.”

“Ah, yes. That.” Professor Quirrell made to walk away from the Mirror,
and seemed to halt just before reaching the point where the Mirror would
no longer have reflected him, if it had been reflecting him.
“Interesting.”

Dumbledore’s smile was colder, now. “No, Tom. You are not going
anywhere.”

Professor Quirrell nodded. “What have you done, exactly?”

“You have refused death,” said Dumbledore, “and if I destroyed your
body, your spirit would only wander back, like a dumb animal that cannot
understand it is being sent away. So I am sending you outside Time, to a
frozen instant from which neither I nor any other can return you.
Perhaps Harry Potter will be able to retrieve you some day, if prophecy
speaks true. He may wish to discuss with you just who is at fault for
the deaths of his parents. For you it will only be an instant—if you
ever return at all. Either way, Tom, I wish you the best of it.”

“Hm,” said Professor Quirrell. The Defence Professor had paced past
where Harry stood, watching mute and with something like horror, only to
halt again at the other edge of the mirror. “As I suspected. You are
using Merlin’s old method of sealing, what the tale of Topherius Chang
names as the Process of the Timeless. If legend speaks true, not even
you can stop the process, now that it has been in motion this long.”

“Indeed,” said Albus Dumbledore. But his eyes were suddenly wary.

And Harry, from where he stood just before and to the right of the door,
waiting in silence and controlled terror, could feel it in the air; he
could feel the sense of a presence gathering within the Mirror’s field.
Something more alien than magic, everything about it incomprehensible
except for the fact of its strangeness and the fact of its power. It had
been slow but now it was waxing faster, that presence.

“But you could still reverse the effect, if Chang’s account is true,”
said Professor Quirrell. “Most powers of the Mirror are double-sided,
according to legend. So you could banish what is on the other side of
the Mirror instead. Send yourself, instead of me, into that frozen
instant. If you wanted to, that is.”

“And why would I do that?” Albus Dumbledore’s voice was tight. “I
suppose you are going to tell me that you have taken hostages? That was
futile, Tom, you fool! You utter fool! You should have known that I
would give you nothing for any hostages you had taken.”

“You always were one step too slow,” said Professor Quirrell. “Allow me
to introduce you to my hostage.”

Another presence invaded the air around Harry, a crawling sensation all
over his flesh as another Tom Riddle’s magic passed very close to his
skin. The Cloak of Invisibility was torn away from him, and the
shimmering black Cloak flew away from him, through the air.

Professor Quirrell caught it, and swiftly drew it over himself; in less
than a second he had pulled down the Cloak’s hood over his head, and
disappeared.

Albus Dumbledore staggered, as though some essential support had been
removed from him.

“Harry Potter,” the Headmaster breathed. “What are you doing here?”

Harry stared at the image of Albus Dumbledore, on whose face utter shock
and utter dismay were warring.

The guilt and the shame were too much, too much, hitting Harry all at
once, and he could feel the incomprehensible presence around him rising
to a peak. Harry knew without words that there was no time left, and
that he was done.

“It’s my fault,” Harry said in a tiny voice, from whatever part of him
had taken over his throat in the final extremity. “I was stupid. I’ve
always been stupid. You mustn’t rescue me. Goodbye.”

“Why, look at that,” sang out Professor Quirrell’s voice from the empty
air, “I don’t seem to have a reflection any more.”

“No,” said Albus Dumbledore. “No, no, NO!”

Into the hand of Albus Dumbledore flew from his sleeve his long,
dark-grey wand, and in his other hand, as though from nowhere, appeared
a short rod of dark stone.

Albus Dumbledore threw these both violently aside, just as the building
sense of power rose to an unbearable peak, and then disappeared.

The Mirror returned to showing the ordinary reflection of a gold-lit
room of white stone, without any trace of where Albus Dumbledore had
been.

111. Failure, Part I

THE Dark Lord was laughing.

From the empty air came the voice of the Defence Professor laughing
wildly, so high and terrible his laughter; it was Voldemort’s laughter
now, the Dark Lord’s laughter beyond all hiding or restraint.

Harry’s mind was disarrayed. His eyes kept staring at where Albus
Dumbledore had been. There was a horror in him that was too huge for
understanding or reflection. His mind kept trying to fall back through
time and undo reality, but that wasn’t a sort of magic that existed, and
reality stayed the same.

He had lost, he had lost Dumbledore, there were no take-backs, and that
meant he had lost the war.

And the Dark Lord went on laughing.

“Ah, ah hah, ah hah hah ha! Professor Dumbledore, ah, Professor
Dumbledore, such a fitting end to our game!” Another burst of wild
laughter. “The wrong sacrifice even at the finish, for the piece you
gave up everything to save was already in my possession! The wrong trap
even from the beginning, for I could have abandoned this body at any
time! Ah, hahahahaha, aha! You never did learn cunning, you poor old
fool.”

“You—” A voice was coming from Harry’s throat. “You—”

“Ahahahaha! Why, yes, little child, you were always along on this
adventure as my hostage, it was your whole purpose in being here. Ha,
hahahaha! You are decades too young to play this game against the real
Tom Riddle, child.” The Dark Lord drew back the hood of the Cloak, his
head becoming visible, and began to remove the rest of the Cloak. “And
now, boy, you have helped me, yess indeed, and sso it iss time to
ressurrect your girl-child friend. To keep promisse.” The Dark Lord’s
smile was cold, cold indeed. “I suppose you have doubts? Mark well, I
could kill you this instant, for there is no longer a Headmaster of
Hogwarts to be informed of it. Doubt me all you wish, but remember
that.” The hand was once more holding the gun. “Now come along, foolish
child.”

And they left.

They went back out through the door into the Potions room, the Dark Lord
banishing the returned purple fire with a stroke of his wand. They went
through the chamber where the boggart had been, and the chamber of
ruined chess statues, and through the burned door of the chamber of
keys. The Dark Lord floated up through the trapdoor, and Harry struggled
up afterwards through the spiral staircase of leaves, the tendrils of
the Devil’s Snare twitching and then moving back as though afraid. The
Boy-Who-Lived was trying hard not to burst into tears, and his dark-side
patterns weren’t helping, maybe because Voldemort had never known or
dealt with guilt.

They passed the huge three-headed Inferi, and at a whispered word from
the Dark Lord it collapsed over the trapdoor and became a corpse again.

They passed Severus Snape standing guard, who told them both that he was
guarding the door, and that they must leave or he would deduct House
points.

The Dark Lord spoke the words “Hyakuju montauk” without pausing in his
stride, accompanied by a jab of his wand; and Severus staggered before
he lifelessly drew himself up beside the door once more.

“What—” Harry said, as he followed. “What did you—”

“Just fulfilling my obligation to my faithful servant. It shall not kill
him, as I promised you.” The Dark Lord laughed again.

“The hostages—” Harry said. It was hard to keep his voice steady. “The
students, you said you’d stop whatever is going to kill them—”

“Yess. Sstop worrying. Will do on our way out.”

“Out?”

“We are leaving, child.” The Dark Lord was still smiling.

The bad feeling this raised was lost in a sea of other bad feelings.

The Dark Lord was now consulting what he’d called the Hogwarts Map, the
handwritten lines upon it seeming to move as they walked. Some part of
Harry’s mind that had been considering what to do if they ran into
Aurors on patrol (whom the Dark Lord could kill, or Obliviate, in an
instant) gave up that hope as well.

They went down the Grand Staircase to the second floor, encountering
no-one.

The Dark Lord made a turn Harry did not know, and went down another
stair-flight. As they descended past one floor and another, the windows
stopped and the torches began, they were within the Slytherin dungeons
now.

Ahead, the form of a person in Hogwarts robes appeared.

The Dark Lord kept walking toward that person.

Harry followed.

A sixth- or seventh-year Slytherin was waiting by a section of wall that
was set with an artistic carving of Salazar Slytherin wielding his wand,
against what looked like a giant covered in icicles. The witch made no
comment at seeing Professor Quirrell walking upright, or seeing Harry in
his company, or seeing the gun in the Defence Professor’s hand. If her
eyes were blank, Harry couldn’t tell the difference.

The Dark Lord reached into his robes, took out a Knut, and flipped it to
her. “Klaudia Alicja Tabor, I command you thus. Take this Knut to the
spell circle I showed you beneath the Quidditch stands and put it in the
centre. Then Obliviate yourself of the last six hours.”

“Yes, lord,” the witch said, bowing to him, and went on her way.

“I thought—” Harry said. “I thought you needed the Stone to—”

The Dark Lord was still smiling, he had never stopped smiling. “I did
not say that part in Parseltongue, child. All I said in Parseltongue was
that I had set events in motion to kill students, events that I would
stop if I obtained the Stone. The rest was in human speech. I would also
have stopped the Blood Fort sacrifice if I had not obtained the Stone,
so long as I was not discovered and restrained. The students of Hogwarts
are a valuable resource, whom I have already spent much time training.”
Then the Dark Lord hissed to the wall, “Open.”

Harry’s eyes saw the tiny snake that had been set in the upper-left of
the carving, even as the wall slowly swung backward, revealing the
opening of a huge pipe. Moss grew on its sides and a musty dusty smell
welled up from it; the interior was also covered with cobwebs in
multiple sheets.

“Spiders…” murmured the Dark Lord. He sighed, and for that brief moment
he sounded once more like Professor Quirrell.

The Dark Lord walked into the huge pipe, the cobwebs burning away before
him. Harry, not seeing any other better options, followed.

The pipe branched in a Y-shape, then branched again. The Dark Lord went
left, then right.

The pipe came to a solid metal wall. “Open,” the Dark Lord hissed, and a
crack appeared in the metal; it seemed to fold into itself.

Beyond was the middle of a long, stone tunnel.

“We shall be walking a while,” said the Dark Lord. “Did you have more
questions to ask, little child?”

“I—I can’t think of any—right now—”

Another cold laugh replied to this, and they walked into the tunnel,
turning right.

Harry didn’t know, then or ever, how long he walked; the light of
burning spiderwebs was too dim to read his mechanical watch, and Harry
had not thought to look at the time before entering. It felt like they
walked for miles, miles beneath the ground.

Slowly, Harry’s mind tried to recover itself a final time. Very possibly
final, if he was right about the Dark Lord killing him after this…
though the Dark Lord had said that he would resurrect Hermione, which
seemed pointless if that was true… was that simply the Dark Lord
following through on a promise he would not otherwise have been able to
make in Parseltongue… why had he not just shot Harry on the spot…

Seriously, some last functioning part of his brain said to all the other
parts, this would be a good time to think of something, something that
the Dark Lord has not already thought of, something we can do without
our pouch or our wand or our Time-Turner, something that Professor
Quirrell has not imagined we can do… think, think, pretty pretty please
think of something? Don’t shut down now, even if you’re scared, even if
we’ve never really really faced death before in the sense of being about
to die in the next hour, this is not the time to shut down—

Harry’s mind stayed blank.

Suppose, said that last remaining part, suppose we try to condition on
the fact that we win this, or at least get out of this alive. If someone
told you as a fact that you had survived, or even won, somehow made
everything turn out okay, what would you think had happened—

Not legitimate procedure, whispered Ravenclaw, the universe doesn’t work
like that, we’re just going to die.

Someone realises we’re missing, thought Hufflepuff, and Mad-Eye Moody
shows up with a squad of Aurors and rescues us. I think the time has
come to admit we’re not more competent than the standard authorities.

The saving factor does have to be something we do somehow, said the last
voice. Otherwise there’s no point in our thinking about it.

Problem two, said Gryffindor. Harry Potter isn’t missing, he’s right
there at the Quidditch match where everyone can see him. Professor
Quirrell thought of that too, it’s part of why he sent that fake note.
Problem three. I don’t think Mad-Eye Moody and an Auror squad can beat
the Dark Lord, and certainly not before he kills us. I’m not sure the
entire DMLE can beat the Dark Lord if he’s fighting seriously and
Dumbledore is gone. Problem four. The Quidditch match was not disrupted,
that’s probably the only reason why Professor Quirrell was willing to
try something as complicated as bringing us along on this trip in the
first place.

Thinking along different lines, ventured Slytherin, maybe Professor
Quirrell calls in someone else to Memory-Charm us. Legilimency,
Imperius, Confundus, who knows what else, we’re not a perfect Occlumens.
Then the Dark Lord would have a smart—well, sort of smart lieutenant
that he could use. That could be another reason why Professor Quirrell
was so willing to tell us secrets, if he knew that the memory would
disappear. It’s also a reason to leave the Hogwarts wards, so the Dark
Lord can call Bellatrix to Apparate in and do the work…

This entire reasoning process is illegitimate and I refuse to
participate, said Ravenclaw.

What lovely last words, said the last voice. Now shut up and think.

Rough stone tunnel went by underfoot, Harry’s shoes sometimes dipping
into moisture or nearly slipping on a curved surface. The neurons in his
brain, which kept on firing, imagined voices talking to each other,
yelling at each other, even as the Listener stayed numb with horror and
shame.

Gryffindor and Hufflepuff were conducting a debate about suicide by
charging the Dark Lord’s gun, or by swallowing the little jewel on
Harry’s steel ring. It seemed unclear whether the fate of the world was
better or worse if the Dark Lord had Harry as a mind-slave; if the Dark
Lord was going to win anyway, it might be better if he won faster.

And the last voice kept talking through it all; even in the depths of
failure that last voice remained. What else did the Dark Lord always say
in human speech and never in Parseltongue? Do we remember? Anything like
that, anything at all?

It was all too distant in time, too distant in time even though it had
all happened this very day. The Dark Lord had told him in Parseltongue
just now that it was time to revive Hermione, and then he’d said other
things all in English, Harry could hardly remember for all that they’d
just been spoken. Before then… before then there’d been the Circle of
Concealment, when Professor Quirrell had hissed that the barrier would
explode if touched. And the Defence Professor had said in English for
Harry not to take off his Cloak or try crossing the Circle, said in
English that the resonance might strike Professor Quirrell afterwards
but Harry would be dead. Said in English that if Harry touched the magic
and Professor Quirrell didn’t remember how to halt the resonance, it
would kill them both…

Suppose it doesn’t kill us both, said the last voice. On Halloween in
Godric’s Hollow, the Dark Lord’s body was burned and we only ended up
with a scar on our forehead. Suppose the resonance between us is
deadlier to the Dark Lord than to us. What if this entire time we’ve
been able to kill the Dark Lord at any time, just by dashing forward and
touching our hands to any part of his exposed skin? And then it makes
our scar bleed again, but that’s all. The sense of ‘stop, don’t do that’
is inherited from the Dark Lord’s worst memory of his mistake in
Godric’s Hollow, it may not actually apply to the Boy-Who-Lived.

A small note of hope rose.

Rose, and was quashed.

The Dark Lord can just throw away his wand, droned Ravenclaw. Professor
Quirrell can turn into his Animagus form. Even if he dies the Dark Lord
will possess someone else and return, and then torture our parents, to
punish us.

We might be able to get to our parents in time, said the last voice. We
might be able to hide them. We might be able to get the Philosopher’s
Stone away from the Dark Lord if we killed his current body now, and
that Stone could provide the nucleus of a counter-army.

The Dark Lord was moving on through the stony corridor. His hand still
held the gun. He was at least four metres away from Harry.

If we dart forward, he will sense us approaching through the resonance,
said Hufflepuff. He will fly forward rapidly, he can do that, he has the
broomstick enchantments that let him fly. He will fly forward, turn
around, and fire the gun. He knows about the resonance, he’s thought of
this already. This is not something the Dark Lord has failed to
consider. He will be ready for it, and waiting.

Continuing the same line of argument, said the last voice. Suppose we
can freely cast magic on Professor Quirrell but he can’t cast it on us.

Why would that be true? demanded Ravenclaw. In fact, we have evidence
that it’s false. In Azkaban, when Professor Quirrell’s Avada Kedavra hit
our Patronus Charm, it felt like our head was splitting apart—

Suppose that was all his magic going out of control. Suppose if we’d
just cast, say, a Luminos targeting him, nothing bad would have
happened.

But why? said Ravenclaw. Why suppose that?

Because, thought Harry, it explains why Professor Quirrell didn’t warn
me not to cast any magic on him in Azkaban. Because Professor Quirrell
never said in Parseltongue, that I can remember, that I’d hurt myself if
I tried to cast magic on him. He could have given me that warning, but
he didn’t, even though he gave me a lot of other warnings. Absence of
evidence is weak evidence of absence.

There was a pause while Harry’s parts considered this.

We don’t actually have our wand, said Ravenclaw.

We might get it back at some point, thought the last voice.

But even then, Harry thought, and the grey hopelessness returned, the
resonance is something the Dark Lord knows about. He’s already thought
of everything I can do with that, he already has a response prepared.
That was my mistake from the beginning. I didn’t respect the Dark Lord’s
intelligence, I didn’t think that maybe he knew everything I knew and
could see everything I saw and had already taken it into account.

Then, said the last voice, conditional on our winning, we must have hit
him with something he doesn’t know about.

Dementors, offered Gryffindor.

The Dark Lord knows we can destroy, deflect, and possibly control
Dementors, said Ravenclaw. He doesn’t know how, but he knows we have the
capability, and where the heck would we get a Dementor anyway?

Maybe, ventured Hufflepuff, the Dark Lord’s whole horcrux system would
short out via the resonance if we grabbed him and held him, sacrificing
our own life to destroy him forever.

Balderdash, said Ravenclaw. But I guess it doesn’t hurt to engage in
some pleasant fantasy before we die, no matter how stupid.

If Lord Voldemort had a strong enough fear of death, Hufflepuff argued,
if he wanted strongly enough to just not need to think about death
again, then the horcrux system could have design flaws like that. It
never occurred to Voldemort to test his horcruxes on someone else, that
could indicate he wasn’t able to think about the subject clearly—

So his fear of death is his fatal weakness? said Ravenclaw. Yeah, no.
I’m thinking someone with over a hundred horcruxes might have a few
fail-safe mechanisms in there.

And Harry’s brain went on thinking.

A genuine asymmetry in the magical resonance between them… seemed
improbable, there was no reason for the magical effect to work like
that. But the magical backlash could hit the stronger wizard harder, the
more powerful magic resonating more dangerously. That could explain the
observed event in Godric’s Hollow (Voldemort explodes, baby survives),
and also explain the observed event in Azkaban (Voldemort severely
impaired by backlash of his strong magic, first-year Boy-Who-Lived hit
by lighter backlash of his weak magic). Or if it was only the caster’s
magic that resonated, that could also explain both those two
observations. That might even explain why Professor Quirrell had been in
no rush to warn Harry against casting any magic on him. Though there was
another obvious reason why Professor Quirrell would avoid raising the
subject of the resonance; it was a gigantic hint about the mystery of
Godric’s Hollow, if Harry had ever made the connection.

The part that was numb with grief and guilt took this opportunity to
observe, speaking of obliviousness, that after events at Hogwarts had
turned serious, they really really really REALLY should have
reconsidered the decision made on First Thursday, at the behest of
Professor McGonagall, not to tell Dumbledore about the sense of doom
that Harry got around Professor Quirrell. It was true that Harry hadn’t
been sure who to trust, there was a long stretch where it had seemed
plausible that Dumbledore was the bad guy and Professor Quirrell the
heroic opposition, but…

Dumbledore would have realised.

Dumbledore would have realised instantly.

The wise old wizard with the true phœnix on his shoulder would have
known, and Harry hadn’t trusted him, Harry hadn’t told him all the
relevant facts, and the reason for this had been sheer neglect to
reconsider a cached decision made four days into the start of the school
year. It had been marked ‘something not to tell Dumbledore’ and even
after Azkaban, even after Hermione died, even after everything, Harry
had simply forgot to promote the question to deliberation and reconsider
the trade-off.

Another wave of grief and shame washed over Harry, and for a time he
walked on in the silence of the last voice, other voices being happy
enough to fill the gap.

After what was at least several miles, and many grey thoughts, the stone
tunnel ended.

The Dark Lord climbed up stone steps, and Harry followed after.

The two of them came into a dark, dank stone building. Dirty old stone
doors swung open without being touched.

Before them lay marble slabs, rising up from bare ground, upon them
names and dates. The tombstones were scattered in nothing like neat
rows, and the rest of the graveyard ran wild.

The moon above was over three-quarters full, already seeming bright with
night not fully fallen.

Harry had stopped walking upon seeing the graveyard. There was a blaring
alarm in his brain saying to be anywhere other than here, but there
weren’t any options for accomplishing that. So that alarm cried
unanswered, even as behind Harry the stone doors of the mausoleum swung
shut again and sealed themselves.

The Dark Lord came into the centre of the scattered graveyard. He
stopped walking, and waved his wand above his head in a small circle.

There was a rumbling sound, and smoothly from the ground rose an altar,
at least two metres wide and of black stone carved with grey sigils. And
then surrounding the altar groaned up six dark-marble obelisks,
regularly spaced, gleaming darkly beneath the fading twilight sky.

The unanswerable alarm in Harry’s brain grew louder.

“This,” said the Dark Lord in Professor Quirrell’s cadences, “is a
workspace I made for myself, convenient to either Hogwarts or
Hogsmeade.” The Dark Lord flourished a hand at the altar. “That is where
Miss Granger shall revive, and also where I shall be reborn into my true
body. I shall remake myself first, of course. Magicss to revive
girl-child eassier with true body.” A strange snakish laughter
accompanied these words. “Resst asssured that though ssome asspectss of
girl-child’ss ressurrection sshall be what otherss conssider Dark,
girl-child will not be harmed or made ugly by it. Sshall sstill look
like hersself, mind sshall be her own, nor sshall I or mine harm her
after.”

Harry’s tongue was dry and his mind was having trouble functioning.
“Please, Professor, would you say in Parseltongue what is your real
purpose in resurrecting Miss Granger?”

“To resstore to you girl-child friend’ss counssel and resstraint. To
make ssure sshe iss part of the world for you to care about. That, boy,
iss truly the greater part of the reasson I am doing thiss deed.” Again
snakish laughter accompanied these words, conveying sardonic awareness
of some vast irony.

A small spark of hope kindled inside Harry, alongside the much greater
note of confusion, and the fear that a perfect Occlumens could indeed
lie in Parseltongue. Harry didn’t understand why the Dark Lord was doing
this, if the next step was just to kill the Boy-Who-Lived or enslave
him…

Maybe he’d just never understood Professor Quirrell at all, maybe
somehow Harry’s model of Tom Riddle was just that wrong… maybe the
Boy-Who-Lived would be Obliviated of the last day and dropped off
somewhere with a confused Hermione Granger, while Lord Voldemort went on
to conquer the world…?

Hope flared up in Harry, but it was a confused hope that didn’t make any
sense. It didn’t square with the Dark Lord who had mocked Dumbledore and
laughed at his defeat. Harry couldn’t come up with any consistent
account of Professor Quirrell’s motives that allowed for something like
that.

I do not know what is meant to happen next.

The Dark Lord had moved forward to the altar. He knelt there, and seemed
to reach deep into the stone of the altar itself, drawing forth a vial
of liquid that looked black in the fading twilight.

When the Dark Lord spoke again his voice was clipped and precise.
“Blood, blood, blood so wisely hidden,” said the Dark Lord.

And the obelisks surrounding the altar began to speak, voices like a
chanting chorus coming from the motionless stones, cadences older than
Latin.

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma mou emoi.

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma mou emoi.

The obelisks’ chant echoed after the end of each line, as if they were
speaking out of synchrony with each other. The blood was poured from the
vial, and it seemed to catch and hang over the altar, slowly expanding
through the air, taking on a shape.

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma mou emoi (emoi).

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma mou emoi (emoi).

A tall form rested upon the altar, and even in the dimming twilight it
looked too pale.

The Defence Professor reached his hand into his robe, and drew forth a
small irregular chunk of red glass.

He placed that upon the tall pale body.

The Stone stayed there for a time, minutes at least. The irregular chunk
of red glass did not glow, or flash, or give any other indication of
power.

Then the Stone moved, just a little, turning slightly upon the body.

The Defence Professor took back the Stone into his robes, and prodded
the tall form that lay motionless upon the altar, touching the eyes with
his fingers, poking the chest with his wand.

He threw back his head, then, and laughed.

“Incredible,” said the Dark Lord, in the voice of the Defence Professor
that Harry had known. “Fixed, it is fixed in form! A mere construct
sustained by magic, become the true substance at the Stone’s touch! And
yet I sensed nothing! Nothing! I feared I had been deceived, that I had
obtained a false Stone, but the substance proves true to my every test!”
The Defence Professor tucked the red glass back into his robes. “That is
eldritch even by my standards, I admit.”

Then the Defence Professor walked around the altar, five times he walked
around it, chanting something too low for Harry to hear.

The Dark Lord placed his wand in the hand of the figure lying on the
altar.

He placed his hands, both of them, over the body’s forehead.

The Dark Lord spoke. “Fal. Tor. Pan.”

Without any warning there was a flash like lightning that lit up the
entire graveyard, and Harry staggered back a step, his hands
involuntarily going to his forehead. It felt as if he had been shot
there, or a wasp stung him, upon his scar.

The Defence Professor collapsed.

And the too-tall figure sat up upon the altar.

It swung around smoothly, and stood tall upon the ground, at least a
head higher than a normal man. The form’s limbs were lean and pale,
little-muscled but giving an impression of terrible strength.

Harry took another staggering step back, his hands still clasped to his
scar. Though the distance between them was wide, Harry felt a sense of
terrifying apprehension in the air, as though the sense of doom had
always been out of focus and had now clarified, concentrated into a
physical pain in the scar on Harry’s forehead.

Was that what Voldemort was supposed to look like? The nose looked like,
it looked like it had malfunctioned during the resurrection process—

The too-tall figure threw back his head and laughed, raising his hands
and wand to look at them. The left hand opened wide and it was like a
pale half-spider with four over-long legs, fingers caressing the wand
held in the other hand. Leaves stirred up from the graveyard,
approaching to dance around the too-tall figure, surrounding him and
clothing him, reforming into a high-necked shirt and flowing robes; and
Lord Voldemort was laughing. Exactly the mirthless laughter that Harry
remembered coming from his own throat inside the Dementor’s nightmare,
precise in tone and timbre.

Red eyes gleamed beneath the fading twilight, their pupils slitted like
a cat’s.

The form that Voldemort had abandoned raised itself, quivering, from the
ground; and in a voice that Harry could barely hear, Quirinus Quirrell
gasped, “Free—oh, free—”

“Stupefy,” said the high cold voice of Voldemort, and Quirinus Quirrell
was blasted down into the ground; then, with a wave of Voldemort’s other
hand, Quirinus Quirrell was picked up and flung away from the altar.

Voldemort walked away from the altar, then turned and looked at Harry;
and the pain in Harry’s scar flared at it.

“Frightened, child?” Voldemort hissed, like there was an undercurrent of
Parseltongue even to the Dark Lord’s human speech. “Good. Place the girl
on the altar, and break your Transfiguration. Iss time for me to revive
her.”

Is this really going to happen? Are we really going to do this?

Harry swallowed, mastering his fear through that note of impossible hope
amid the confusion, and walked over to the altar. Then Harry took off
his left shoe, and his left sock, and took off the toe-ring that was
Hermione Granger, the Transfigured shape identical to the toe-ring that
had been given Harry as an emergency portkey. There was a twinge of
regret in Harry for not having the real portkey now, but only a twinge;
an inner-circle Death Eater would routinely put up boundaries against
portkeys, if Severus had been right. Behind Harry, Voldemort laughed
again in what sounded like surprised appreciation.

“I need my wand to Finite her,” Harry said aloud.

“You do not.” High the voice and cruel. “You learned to sustain a
Transfiguration by touch alone, without further use of the wand. You can
likewise break your own Transfiguration wandlessly, by commanding your
sustaining magic to drain away. Do so now.”

Harry swallowed, and touched the toe-ring. He had to try three times,
and clear his mind, before he could push his magic out of the toe-ring,
as before he had learned to make a tiny stream of magic flow in.

The breaking of the spell went much more slowly that way than a Finite
Incantatem, almost like the sped-up reverse of watching something being
Transfigured. The toe-ring distorted, flowing together, expanding.
Colours changed, textures changed.

Two-thirds of a dead girl lay strewn across the altar, on her side with
one arm falling off the altar’s edge, the position in which the
reversion had chanced to place her. No blood flowed now from the chewed
stumps of her thighs. The dead girl wore Hermione Granger’s face, but
twisted and pale. It was as Harry had seen before in the hospital’s back
room, the image burned into his brain during thirty long minutes of
Transfiguration, the image he had reproduced during four even longer
hours to Transfigure the decoy. The dead girl was naked, for her clothes
were not part of her, and had not been Transfigured.

The sight brought back flashbacks, of the hours spent in the infirmary
room, of the nightmares afterwards, all of which Harry suppressed.

“Go back,” said Voldemort’s high voice. “This is my work, now.”

Harry swallowed, and retreated from the altar, to the mouth of the long
corridor where he’d stood before. “Her body is, should be, around five
Celsius, I cooled her so, so there wouldn’t be brain damage—” Harry’s
own voice was wavering in pitch. Is he really going to do this? Really?
There had to be a catch and Harry just couldn’t see it. Voldemort had
said that neither he nor any of his would harm Hermione, that her body
and mind would be her own—why?

Voldemort walked forth to the altar once more, orienting the body before
him with a wave of his hand to lie straight across the altar. The Dark
Lord spoke with high monotone precision, “Flesh, flesh, flesh so wisely
hidden.”

The obelisks began chanting once more.

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma hou emoi (emoi).

Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma hou emoi (emoi).

New flesh flowed out of the stumps of the girl’s thighs, creeping
forward like an ooze and solidifying.

The obelisks ceased chanting. A complete form lay naked upon the altar.

It didn’t look like Hermione. A Hermione Granger should be standing up
and talking, she should have her Hogwarts uniform.

Voldemort raised a hand, then hissed, as though in annoyance. With a
violent gesture, the robes around Quirinus Quirrell’s sleeping from were
torn in half, his purple-and-green tie shredded, and his suit jacket
drawn from him to where Voldemort stood. Some part of Harry flinched, as
if seeing the Dark Lord Voldemort attacking Professor Quirrell.

Voldemort plunged his hand deliberately into the suit jacket, which
jerked as though something were being broken; then Voldemort shook out
the suit jacket onto the ground beside him, emptying out the contents.
Harry’s pouch fell from it, and his Time-Turner, and a broomstick, and
Voldemort’s gun, and the Cloak, and a number of amulets and rings and
stranger devices that Harry did not recognize.

And finally a chunk of red glass, which was laid upon Hermione Granger’s
form, and allowed to stay there for a time.

Minutes passed. The Dark Lord donned an amulet from the heap of things
beside the altar; also from the heap, Voldemort took four short wooden
rods with straps upon them, and reached beneath his robes to attach
them, it looked like they went on his upper arms and upper thighs. The
Dark Lord rose into the air, moved left, right, up and down, seeming to
wobble slightly at first; then his flight stabilized.

The chunk of red glass turned, slightly.

The Dark Lord Voldemort floated to the ground, and prodded Hermione
Granger’s body with his wand.

“There iss an obsstacle,” hissed Voldemort.

In Harry’s mind the expectation of betrayal or other failure had already
been so strong that the confirmation came only as a dull shock, not a
sharp one. “What obsstacle?”

“Girl’ss body iss resstored. Ssubsstance iss repaired. But not magic, or
life… thiss iss body of dead Muggle.” Voldemort turned from the altar,
began to pace. “The full ritual would solve this. But that would require
time… time and the blood of Granger’s enemy, and I do not think Draco
Malfoy still qualifies, nor can I take my own blood unwillingly…
foolish.” Voldemort’s voice was a lower hiss. “Foolish, I should have
foreseen this, and prepared. Her brain might awaken with an electrical
shock, I know that much of Muggle medicine… but would her magic return
to her? That I do not know, and I suspect if she awakens as a Muggle she
will be a Muggle forever. Still, I can think of nothing better.” The
Dark Lord raised his wand—

“Wait!” Harry blurted, feeling hope return. She needs a spark of life
and magic, just a spark to get her started…

Voldemort turned and looked at him. The snakelike face showed some
slight degree of surprise.

“Think I have ssomething that might work,” Harry hissed. “Needss wand.
Have no intentionss to usse it againsst you.” Harry said nothing about
expecting his intentions wouldn’t change; he’d simply blurted out the
idea fast enough that he hadn’t formed any specific intentions yet.

“Thiss,” Voldemort hissed, “I dessire to ssee.” The Dark Lord reached
into the heap of things by the altar, and picked up the wrapped form of
Harry’s wand. It was thrown, gliding through the air and then dropping
at Harry’s feet; and then the Dark Lord floated back, the heap of things
moving smoothly backwards with him.

Harry unwrapped his wand, and moved forward.

We have our wand back, that’s step one, said the last voice, the voice
of hope.

No part of Harry had any idea what step two might be, but it was still
step one accomplished.

And Harry stood before the reformed body of Hermione Granger, who was
still naked and dead, on a twilight-lit stone altar.

“Lord Voldemort,” Harry said, “I beg you, please give her some clothes.
It might help me do this.”

“Granted,” hissed Voldemort. The pain in Harry’s scar flared as the
naked girl’s body lifted into the air, then flared again as dead leaves
danced around her and she was clothed in the seeming of a Hogwarts
uniform, though the trim was red instead of blue. Hermione Granger’s
hands folded over her chest, her legs straightened, and her body drifted
back down.

Harry looked at her.

Focused on her, now that she looked human again.

She looks like she is sleeping, not dead. It took a conscious effort to
look for breathing, fail to see it, and make the deduction. So far as
naked perception was concerned… Hermione might as well be alive, right
now.

That Hermione Granger would not approve of this situation, taken as a
whole, seemed beyond question. But it didn’t mean that she would rather
stay dead than be alive, other things being equal, though they might not
be.

Because you wish to live, because my best guess is that you would wish
to live…

Harry reached out his shaking left hand, and touched Hermione’s
forehead. It was warm now, not the chill of five degrees Celsius; either
Voldemort had increased her body temperature to normal, or the magic of
the ritual had done it automatically. Which meant that Hermione’s brain
was currently warm and without oxygen, come to think.

That did it, the sense of urgency rising in him.

Harry’s feet assumed the stance, his wand swung up to point at Hermione
Granger’s dead body. The only thing wrong with Hermione’s body was that
it was dead; everything else about that body was right, only one thing
needed changing.

You don’t belong here, death.

“EXPECTO,” Harry shouted, feeling the magic and the life rise up into
the Patronus Charm that was fuelled by both, “PATRONUM!”

The girl in the Hogwarts uniform was surrounded by a blazing aura of
silver fire, as the Patronus was born inside her.

Harry staggered, as he felt a dip, a bite. Intuition or Tom Riddle’s
memory told Harry that the life and magic that had just flowed into
Hermione would never return to him, either one. It hadn’t been all his
life or all his magic, not by a long shot, there hadn’t been time to
expend that much, but whatever he’d just expended was gone forever.

And Hermione Granger was breathing, just like she was sleeping, rhythmic
inhalations and exhalations. The twilight sky had dimmed further, and
Harry could not see if colour was returning to her, but it should have
been, it certainly should have been. She looked to be sleeping
peacefully, and it wasn’t because being dead looked like sleeping, it
was because she was asleep and her body was fine and nothing was hurting
her while she slept.

Some part of Harry, that had somehow managed not to speak up earlier,
quietly pointed out that they were still in a graveyard, the recently
victorious Lord Voldemort was still in control of the situation, and
that his guess about Hermione wanting to be alive was just a guess.

Harry was still smiling, as he slowly lowered his wand. The celebratory
fireworks going off inside his mind were restrained, Harry wasn’t
screaming and running around in little circles like Professor Flitwick,
but that—

That—

That, Harry said aloud inside his mind, That is what I call Step Two.

“Interesting,” said the cold high voice. “Your Patronus draws upon your
life as well as your magic… I guessed that much, for it was too powerful
for a first-year to fuel with magic alone. And yet there must be more to
the puzzle, since not just any life-fuelled spell would have done… was
your happy thought the image of her returning to life? Was that all it
took?” Lord Voldemort was again toying with his wand, a dark interest in
those red-slitted eyes. “I suspect I will feel quite stupid when I
finally comprehend that spell, some day in my eternity. Now step away
from the girl. There iss more work I intend to do, to give her besst
chance of continued life.”

Harry stepped back, reluctantly, the sense of tension starting to return
to him. He almost tripped over one haphazard grave marker, as the Dark
Lord continued to walk forward.

Standing before the altar, the Dark Lord laid one finger upon Hermione
Granger’s forehead.

Then the Dark Lord tapped his finger upon Hermione Granger’s forehead,
and said, in a voice so low Harry almost did not hear, “Requiescus.”

Voldemort waved his hand at an obelisk, which began to rotate, turning
itself to lay flat upon the ground, pointing outward. “Fascinating
indeed,” Voldemort hissed. “She is alive, and magical, and not another
Tom Riddle as I feared you might have made her.”

The tension was rising again in Harry. He’d put his wand away into the
back belt of his trousers, he did not want to remind Voldemort that he
still had the wand on him. “What are you doing to her now?”

Another obelisk turned, lay flat upon the ground. “There iss old, losst
ritual to ssacrifice magical creature, transsfer magical nature to
ssubject. Limitationss are great. Transsfer iss temporary, only few
hourss. Ssubject ssometimess diess when transsfer wearss off. But Sstone
will make permanent.”

Four obelisks lay flat upon the ground, evenly spaced; the other two
obelisks had been floated away.

Voldemort began to reach into his own mouth, checked himself, hissed
with annoyance again. He gestured at the sleeping mouth of Quirinus
Quirrell, and from Quirrell’s mouth floated up two teeth, almost
invisible in the falling night. One of these went to the pile of items,
the other floated to before the altar.

Moments later, Harry cried out and took a step back.

Huge and misshapen, lumpy skin, legs thick as tree trunks, a small head
that looked like a coconut perched upon a boulder.

A mountain troll stood within the circle of obelisks, motionless as
though asleep while standing.

“What are you doing?”

Voldemort’s mouth was stretched in a wide smile; it looked horrible on
him, like his face had too many teeth. “Sshall ssacrifice my fallback
weapon, and girl-child sshall gain troll’ss power of regeneration.
Transsfiguration ssicknesss iss nothing before that, if perchance it
wass not fixsed by previouss ritual. And no knife sshall sslay
girl-child, nor cutting cursse, nor ssicknesss take her.”

“Why—why are you doing this?” Harry’s voice shook.

“Have not the tiniesst intention of letting girl-child die again, after
going to ssuch lengthss to ressurrect her.”

Harry swallowed. “I’m very confused.” Was Voldemort practising being
nice? This hypothesis did not seem like a sufficient explanation.

“Stay well back,” Voldemort said coldly. “This ritual is Darker than the
last.” The Dark Lord began a new chant, softer syllables that seemed to
seethe through the air like living things; and Harry, feeling a new
surge of apprehension, stepped backwards.

Then Harry cried aloud, as pain flared again within his scar. The
mountain troll crumbled in on itself, becoming ashes hanging in the air,
then dust, and then the dust seemed to blow away without going anywhere;
it was gone.

Hermione Granger slept on peacefully, whatever spell of repose Voldemort
had cast on her being sufficient to the task.

“Um,” Harry said in a small voice. “Did it work?”

“Diffindo.”

Harry stepped forward with a choked yell, and then halted, both as the
stupidity of his motion caught up with him, and as the sudden cut that
the Severing Charm had opened on Hermione’s leg closed almost as quickly
as it had been made. In seconds there was only a light stain of blood on
the surrounding flesh.

The Stone was laid again on Hermione, and after a time it turned.
Voldemort laughed once more, as he passed his hand over her.
“Marvellous.”

Then another tiny tooth was floating within the circle of obelisks; and
an instant later, a unicorn stood where the troll had stood before, eyes
dull and head lowered.

“What?” Harry said. “Why a unicorn?”

“Power of unicorn’ss blood to presserve life makess exscellent
combination with troll’ss healing. Only Fiendfyre and Killing Cursse
sshall girl-child fear, from thiss day.” A flicker of snakish laughter.
“Bessidess, had sspare unicorn left over, might ass well usse.”

“Unicorn’s blood has side effects—”

“That iss only when power of unicorn’ss blood iss sstolen by another.
Thiss sspell will make power of unicorn belong insside girl-child, ass
if sshe wass alwayss born that way.”

The grim chant and its seething words began again.

Harry watched, not understanding in the slightest.

Forget understanding, what am I seeing?

I’m seeing the Dark Lord Voldemort going to enormous lengths to
resurrect Hermione Granger and keep her alive. It’s like he thinks that
his own life depends on Hermione Granger being alive, somehow.

The confused parts of Harry looked around for a procedure to follow.
‘Make a prediction based on your best current hypothesis’ was the first
thought that came to mind, but it didn’t seem to lead anywhere. The plot
of the story wasn’t going how it ought to, after the villain had won.

Again the blaze of pain in his scar, like a blow to Harry’s forehead.
The unicorn swayed, and then disintegrated as the troll had done.

The Dark Lord laid the Stone upon Hermione’s form once more, clasping
her hands around it.

Voldemort watched the unremarkable process for a time, then turned while
the Stone still laid on her, making a high humming sound in his throat.
“Ah, yess,” hissed Voldemort. “That would be mosst appropriate. Do you
sstill have the diary I gave you, boy? The diary of the famouss
sscientisst?”

Harry’s brain took a moment to place what Voldemort was talking about.
It had been in Mary’s Room, in Mary’s Place, in October, that precious
gift from a friend. The thought should have triggered a wave of awful
sadness, for the Professor Quirrell that had been lost or never real;
but there had been enough of that emotion already, and his brain had set
it aside for now.

“Yes,” Harry said aloud. “I think it’s in my pouch, can I check?” Harry
knew it was in the pouch. He’d loaded it up with everything that he
might possibly conceivably need, that he owned or had bought; everything
that could have been a quest item.

From the heap of items by the altar, Harry’s mokeskin pouch was drawn
out, tossed to Harry’s feet.

“Roger Bacon’s diary,” Harry said as he reached in a hand, and the diary
appeared. Professor Quirrell had said that the diary would emerge
unscathed from a fire, so Harry threw it toward Voldemort’s altar. Harry
did not wince; there were more important things to worry about than
polite treatment of books, even that one.

Voldemort picked up the diary, examining it, appearing quite absorbed.

Harry, as quietly and unobtrusively as he could, attached the pouch to
his belt loop in back, where it wouldn’t be visible, near where Harry
had put his wand.

Step three, the pouch.

“Yess,” Voldemort hissed as he flipped pages of the diary, “thiss will
do quite well.” The Stone moved slightly, and the Dark Lord’s other hand
stored the Stone again within his robes.

“What was your hidden purpose behind the diary?” Harry said when the
pouch was attached to his belt, and he’d put both of his empty hands
where Voldemort could see them again. “I tried translating a little at
the beginning, but it was going slowly—” Actually, it had been
excruciatingly slow and Harry had found other priorities.

“Diary wass exsactly what it sseemed, a gift meant to sseduce you to my
sside.” Voldemort made intricate gestures in the air with his wand, not
even looking at what his hand was doing, as he held the diary in his
other hand. For a moment Harry thought he could see a trail of darkness
in the air, but the moonlight was too faint for certainty. “And now, my
dear boy,” Voldemort’s high voice was laced with grim amusement, as his
wand briefly tapped Hermione Granger’s forehead with a casual gesture,
“I make this diary into a far more precious gift, a sign of how much
wisdom I have learned from you. For I would never want you to be
deprived of Hermione Granger’s counsel and restraint, not ever while the
stars yet live. Avada Kedavra.”

The green bolt of the Killing Curse blazed out faster than Harry could
possibly have cast the Patronus Charm, faster than he could possibly
have moved, it was already over even as Harry cried out and went for his
wand.

Quirinus Quirrell’s unconscious body did not even jerk, in death. The
green light struck into it without other sign.

Darkness glowed in the air, anti-light in the trails that Voldemort had
made before, and the Diary of Roger Bacon darkened as though corruption
were creeping over it, even as a shiver appeared in the air around
Hermione Granger’s form.

The pain in Harry’s scar flared overwhelmingly, like a brand driven into
his forehead, it sent Harry dodging unthinkingly to one side as Tom
Riddle’s reflexes took over.

And Voldemort was also screaming, shrieking as he dropped the diary to
the ground, holding his own head and screaming.

Chance—

The last voice of hope said that, as Harry tried frantically to think,
to understand. There wasn’t any point in trying to kill Voldemort now,
it might only annoy him, weapons couldn’t kill him while any of his
hundreds of horcruxes remained—

But it still seemed worth it to temporarily discarnate Voldemort, take
the Stone and Hermione and run.

Harry’s right hand had already taken his wand. His left hand went around
to his back, reached awkwardly into his pouch, began to make a silent
sign, three English letters.

“No!” cried Voldemort. He’d dropped his hands from his head, was staring
at Hermione’s body as though bewildered. “No, no!”

The item came up from Harry’s pouch into his hand, and Harry began to
step forward as smoothly as he could, diminishing the range between them
to what his brief trials had shown was doable.

“My great creation—” gasped Voldemort. His voice was high, sounding
panicked. “Two different spirits cannot exist in the same world—it is
gone, it is severed! A horcrux, I must make a horcrux at once—”
Voldemort’s gaze fell on Hermione Granger’s still-sleeping form, and he
began to raise his wand in the air, executing the same gestures as
before.

Harry raised his gun and pulled the trigger three times.

112. Failure, Part II

EVEN as Harry had raised the gun, he’d known he was making a mistake,
his forebrain saw it and tried to stop his hand, but somehow the sick
certainty didn’t propagate fast enough to prevent his finger from
pulling the trigger—

The echo of the shots died away within the graveyard.

A fraction of a second before Harry had pulled the trigger, Voldemort
had jabbed his wand downward, and a wide wall of dirt had shot up
between them from the graveyard earth, intercepting all three bullets.

An instant after that, pain flared in Harry’s scar, a crawling feeling
came close to his skin; and then Harry’s pouch, clothes, gun, everything
except his wand disappeared, leaving him naked but for the wand still in
his right hand, and the glasses he’d Charmed to stick to his nose. The
steel ring upon his left pinky finger was yanked off hard enough to
scrape skin, taking the Transfigured jewel with it.

“That,” said the voice of Voldemort from behind the dirt wall, “was
absolutely predictable. Do you really think I would shout it aloud for
you to hear, if my immortality were disrupted? Really, stupid child?
Lower your wand, do not raise it up again at any time, or you die upon
the spot.”

Harry swallowed, and pointed his wand downward. “You would have been
disappointed in me,” Harry said, his own voice now unusually high, “if
I’d missed an opportunity like that, I mean.” There was no time to
think, and Harry’s mouth was operating on autopilot for trying to
placate evil overlords that might have paternal feelings for you and
whom you’d just failed to assassinate.

Voldemort stepped around from behind the dirt wall, smiling that
horrible smile that seemed to contain too many teeth. “I promised not to
raise my hand or wand against you, child, if you did not raise your hand
or wand against me.”

“I used bullets,” Harry said, his voice still high. “That’s not a fist
or a spell.”

“My curse thinks differently. That is the puzzle piece that you missed.
Did you think I would leave the peace between us to mere fortune? Before
I created you, I invoked a curse upon myself and all other Tom Riddles
who would descend from me. A curse to enforce that none of us would
threaten the others’ immortality, so long as the other made no attempt
upon our own. Typical of that ridiculous fiasco, the curse seems to have
ended up binding me, but taking no hold upon the infant with his self so
lost.” A low, lethal chuckle. “But you tried to end my true life jusst
then, sstupid child. Now cursse iss lifted, and I may kill you any time
I wissh.”

“I see,” Harry said. He did see; that was why Voldemort had told him
about his horcrux system in the first place, just to set up the moment
when Harry knowingly tried to violate his immortality. Harry’s mind was
frantically churning through options, none of which seemed helpful. His
pouch, his clothes, Harry saw by the moonlight that they all now lay in
another heap by the altar, out of reach. “And now you kill me?” Harry
still had his wand, presumably the Dark Lord couldn’t cast his own magic
on that, or his glasses, because of the disharmony. Cast my own spell
first? No, Voldemort just jabs his wand downward to make another shield,
then shoots me—what else is there? What else?

“Still a fool. If no further matters remained between us, I would
already have killed you.” The dirt wall crumbled at another gesture of
the wand, and Voldemort moved smoothly back toward the heap of items by
the altar. The Dark Lord stretched out a hand, and the diary of Roger
Bacon flew to him. “Thiss iss, indeed, horcruxs of girl-child, my
ssuperior verssion.” In his other hand appeared a parchment. “Thiss iss
ritual for ressurrecting her, if it musst be done again. Insstructionss
are honesst, no trapss. Remember that girl-child’ss sspirit cannot float
free like ghosst, Ressurrection Sstone iss my horcruxs, not herss. Do
not losse her horcruxs, or her sspirit may be trapped within it.”
Voldemort reached down, picked up Harry’s pouch, fed both the diary and
the parchment into it. “Remember that, in casse ssomething goess wrong
with nexst movess.”

“I don’t understand what is happening,” Harry said. There was nothing
else left. “Please explain to me.”

The Dark Lord was now regarding Harry with a grim look. “When girl-child
died, wass in company of sschool’ss Sseer, heard prophecy sspoken that
you would become force of vasst desstruction. You would become threat
beyond imagination, beyond apocalypsse. That iss why I went to ssuch
lengthss to undo my killing of girl-child, keep it undone.”

“Are,” what “are you sure,” what.

“Dare not ssay sspecificss to you. Prophecy I heard of mysself led me to
fulfil it. Have not forgotten that dissasster.” Voldemort backed further
away from Harry, red-slitted eyes fixed upon the Boy-Who-Lived, gun
unwavering in the left hand. “All thiss, all I have done, iss to ssmassh
that desstiny at every point of intervention. If ssome fate makess me
fail in what comess nexst, idiot-child of foretold desstruction, then
you musst kill yoursself to ssave girl-child. Elsse all you claim to
value diess by your own hand.”

“I,” Harry’s voice went up an octave, “I,” another octave, “I really
really wouldn’t do that, seriously!”

“Ssilence, fool. Remain ssilent unlesss given leave by me to sspeak.
Keep your wand pointed down and do not raisse it unlesss told. Elsse you
die upon the sspot, and mark that I ssaid that in Parsseltongue.”
Voldemort reached into the altar again.

For a second Harry’s mind couldn’t process what he was seeing, and then
he saw that Voldemort was holding a human arm, severed near the
shoulder; it seemed too thin, that arm.

The Dark Lord pressed his wand to the flesh above the severed arm’s
elbow, and the fingers twitched, twitched like they were alive; by dim
moonlight Harry saw a darker mark appear on that flesh, just above the
elbow.

Seconds later the first hooded figure appeared inside the graveyard with
the popping sound of an Apparition. A moment after that came another
pop, and then another.

The hooded figures wore silver skull masks, and moonlight fled from the
robes beneath them.

“Master!” cried one of the black robes, the third to arrive. The voice
was of peculiar timbre, from behind the silver skull mask. “Master—it
has been so long—we had lost hope—”

“Silence!” shouted the high voice of the Dark Lord Voldemort. Every
trace of Professor Quirrell was now gone from the too-tall figure.
“Train your wand upon the Boy-Who-Lived, and watch him! Do not be
distracted, not by anything! Stun him at once if he moves, if he begins
to speak!”

More pops. Between graves, behind a tree, in all the shadowy spaces,
more black robes were Apparating, all hooded and masked. Some of them
voiced exclamations of joy, many of those sounding rather forced; others
moved forwards as though to greet their Master. Voldemort gave them all
the same instruction, except that some were commanded to Cruciate Harry
Potter if he moved, others to restrain the Boy-Who-Lived if he moved,
others told to fire hexes and curses, others told to cancel his magic.

Thirty-seven pops, Harry counted before the black robes and skull masks
seemed to stop arriving.

All of them were now holding their wands pointed at Harry, aligned in a
semicircle before him, where they wouldn’t get into each other’s lines
of fire.

Harry continued pointing his wand downward, insofar as he had been told
that, if he tried to raise it, he would die. He remained silent, insofar
as he had been told that if he tried to speak, he would die. He tried
not to shiver in the falling night temperatures, for he was naked, and
it was getting colder.

You know, said the last voice within Harry, the voice of hope, I think
this is getting pretty bad even by my standards.

113. End-of-year Exam

THE gibbous moon riding higher in the cloudless sky, the stars and wash
of the Milky Way visible in all their majesty within the darkness: all
these illuminated thirty-seven skull masks gleaming above black robes,
and the darker-clad Lord Voldemort, whose eyes shone red.

“Welcome, my Death Eaters,” spoke Lord Voldemort’s voice, smooth and
high and terrible. “No, do not look at me, you fools! Eyes upon the
Potter child! Ten years, it has been, ten years since we last met. Yet
you answer my call as though it were yesterday…” The Dark Lord Voldemort
came near to one hooded figure, tapped fingers upon the mask. “In a
hastily Transfigured mockery of a Death Eater’s true armour, with a
childish Charm to distort your voice. Explain, Mr Honour.”

“Our old masks and robes…” said the robe whose mask the Dark Lord had
tapped. Even through the distorting timbre of the mask, the fear in it
was audible. “We… we were not fighting in them, Master, with you gone…
so I did not maintain their enchantments… and then you summoned me to
appear here, masked, and I… I always held faith in you, Master, but I
did not know you would return this very day… I am truly sorry to have
displeased you…”

“Enough.” The Dark Lord moved on to stand behind another figure, that
seemed to tremble, though it kept its mask facing the Boy-Who-Lived, and
its wand held level. “I might think more kindly of such neglect, if you
had pursued my agenda by other means… Mr Counsel. Yet I return to
find—what? A country conquered in my name?” The high voice climbed
higher. “No! I find you playing ordinary politics in the Wizengamot! I
find your brothers still abandoned in Azkaban! It is a disappointment to
me… I confess myself disappointed… You thought I was gone, the Dark Mark
dead, and you forsook my purpose. Is that right, Mr Counsel?”

“No, Master!” cried that masked figure. “We knew you would return—but,
but we could not fight Dumbledore without you—”

“Crucio.”

A horrible scream tore out of the mask, piercing the night, it continued
for long, long seconds.

“Get up,” the Dark Lord said to the figure that had collapsed upon the
ground. “Keep your wand on Harry Potter. Do not lie to me again.”

“Yes, Master,” sobbed the figure, as it pushed itself to its feet.

Voldemort resumed pacing behind the black-robed figures. “I suppose you
are also wondering what Harry Potter is doing here… Why he is a guest at
my rebirthing party.”

“I know, Master!” said one of the robes. “You mean to prove your power
by killing him, in front of us all, to leave no doubt as to which of you
is stronger! To show how your Killing Curse can slay even this so-called
Boy-Who-Lived!”

There was a pause. None of the cloaked figures dared to speak.

Slowly, the Dark Lord Voldemort, in his high-collared shirt and dark
robes, turned to face the Death Eater who had spoken.

“That,” whispered Voldemort in a voice chill as death, “is a little too
much folly for me to credit, Mr Sallow. You heard that theory of how I
died, and tried to provoke me into repeating a mistake?” Lord Voldemort
was floating, rising high off the ground. “I suppose you came to prefer
your laziness to my mastery, Macnair?”

The Death Eater who’d spoken was suddenly surrounded by a blue haze. He
spun, slashed his wand at the Dark Lord, and cried “Avada Kedavra!”

Voldemort simply tilted to one side in mid-air, dodging the green bolt.

“Avada Kedavra!” cried the Death Eater. His hand that didn’t hold a wand
was making other gestures, further colours and layers building up in his
shielding haze with each gesture completed. “Help me, my brothers! If we
all—”

The Death Eater fell in seven flaming pieces to the ground, chunks of
flesh with the cauterized edges still glowing.

“Eyes and wands on Harry Potter, all of you,” Voldemort repeated, his
voice low and dangerous. “And Macnair acted in sheer stupidity just
then, for I command your Marks, as I always shall. I am immortal.”

“Master,” said another robe. “The girl upon the altar—is she to serve us
for a Dark Revel? She seems unworthy of such a joyous occasion. I could
find better, Master, if you give me leave for just a short time—”

“No, Mr Friendly,” said Voldemort, sounding rather amused. “The little
witch you see upon the altar is none other than Hermione Granger—”

“What?” cried one of the black robes, and then, “I’m sorry, Master, I’m
sorry, I beg your—”

“Crucio.” This screaming only lasted a few seconds, and Voldemort had
performed it as though it were perfunctory. Afterwards Voldemort’s voice
returned to low amusement. “I have resurrected this mudblood through the
Darkest of magics, for my own purposes. You shall not offer her the
slightest trouble, any of you. You are better off dead than if I learn
my little experiment came to harm at your hands. This order is absolute,
regardless of other circumstances—even if she escapes, let us say.” A
cold high laugh, as if at some joke that nobody else understood.

“Master,” one of the robes said in a faltering voice distorted by his
skull mask. “Master, please—I would never defy you, I am obedient as you
see—but Master, I beg you, let me return, the better to serve you
later—I came here in haste, forsaking—Master, with so many of us being
gone, others will wonder, they will mark the absences, who has
disappeared. Soon there shall be no alibi I can offer.”

A cold high laugh. “Ah, Mr White, the most delinquent of my servants. I
have not yet decided if you will survive your punishment. I have less
need of you than I once did, Mr White. In two days’ time the Death
Eaters shall walk openly. My powers have increased, and I have just this
day disposed of Dumbledore.” More gasps of shock arose from the Death
Eaters, Voldemort paid them no heed. “Tomorrow I shall slay Bones,
Crouch, Moody, and Scrimgeour, if they have not fled. The rest of you
shall go into the Ministry and the Wizengamot, and cast Imperius Curses
as I direct you. We are finished waiting. By tomorrow’s nightfall I
shall have declared myself Lord Ruler of Britain!”

Intakes of breath rose from the gathered masks, but one figure was
laughing.

“You find me amusing, Mr Grim?”

“Apologies, Master,” said the robed figure who had laughed, his wand
perfectly level upon where Harry stood. “I was glad to hear you had
dispatched Dumbledore. I fled from Britain in cowardly fear of him,
having lost faith in your return.”

Voldemort’s chuckle resounded within the graveyard. “Your candour earns
you my mercy, Mr Grim. I was surprised to see you here tonight; you are
more competent than I suspected. But before we turn our attention to
happier matters, there is a certain affair to which we must attend. Tell
me, Mr Grim, if the Boy-Who-Lived swore an oath to you, might you trust
him?”

“Master… I don’t understand…” said Mr Grim. One or two of the other
Death Eaters turned their masks toward Voldemort before quickly fixing
the skull gaze on Harry.

“Answer me,” Voldemort hissed. “This is not a trick, Mr Grim, and you
will answer truthfully or bear the consequences. You knew the boy’s
forebears, did you not? Knew them for straightforward folk? If the boy
freely chose to swear to you an oath, even knowing you for a Death
Eater, might you trust in his words? Answer me!” Voldemort’s voice rose
to a shriek.

“I… yes, Master, I suppose I might…”

“Good,” Voldemort said coldly. “The potential for trust must exist, to
be sacrificed. And for the bonder of the Unbreakable Vow… which of you
shall sacrifice their magic? It shall be quite the long Vow… much longer
than usual… much magic shall be required for that…” Voldemort smiled his
awful smile. “Mr White shall do.”

“No, please! Master, I beg you! I served you better than any—as best I
could—”

“Crucio,” said Voldemort, and Mr White screamed through his mask’s
distortion for what seemed like a full minute. “Be grateful if I leave
you your life! Now approach the boy, Mr Grim, Mr White. From behind him,
idiot! You must not block the others’ wands! And the rest of you, you
must fire if Harry Potter tries to run, even if it means striking at
your fellow Death Eaters.”

Mr White took time to approach, the black robes seeming to shake, even
as Mr Grim moved smoothly into position.

“What is to be the Vow, Master?” came the voice of Mr Grim.

“Ah, yes,” Voldemort said. The Dark Lord went on pacing behind the
semicircle of Death Eaters. “Today—though I hardly expect even you to
believe me—today we are doing Merlin’s work, my Death Eaters. Yes!
Before us stands a great danger, who in his blundering folly has been
prophesied to wreak destruction such as even I can scarcely imagine. The
Boy-Who-Lived! The boy who frightens Dementors! The cattle who believe
they own this world should have been more worried when they saw that.
Useless, all of them!”

“Forgive me—” said one black robe in a halting voice. “Master—surely, if
that is so—Master, why don’t we just kill him right away?”

Voldemort laughed, a strange bitter laugh. When he spoke on his high
voice was precise. “Here is the oath’s intent, Mr Grim, Mr White, Harry
Potter. Listen well and comprehend the Vow that must be sworn, for its
intent is also binding, and you three must share an understanding of its
meaning. You will swear, Harry Potter, not to destroy the world, to take
no risks when it comes to not destroying the world. This Vow may not
force you into any positive action, on account of that, this Vow does
not force your hand to any stupidity. Do you understand that, Mr Grim,
Mr White? We are dealing with a prophecy of destruction. A prophecy!
They can fulfil themselves in twisted ways. We must be cautious that
this Vow itself does not bring that prophecy about. We dare not let this
Vow force Harry Potter to stand idly after some disaster is already set
in motion by his hand, because he must take some lesser risk if he tries
to stop it. Nor must the Vow force him to choose a risk of truly vast
destruction, over a certainty of lesser destruction. But all Harry
Potter’s foolishness,” Voldemort’s voice climbed, “all his recklessness,
all his grandiose schemes and good intentions—he shall not risk them
leading to disaster! He shall not gamble with the Earth’s fate! No
researches that might lead to catastrophe! No unbinding of seals, no
opening of gates!” Voldemort’s voice lowered again. “Unless this very
Vow itself is somehow leading into the destruction of the world, in
which case, Harry Potter, you must ignore it in that particular regard.
You will not trust yourself alone in making such a determination, you
must confide honestly and fully in your trusted friend, and see if that
one agrees. Such is this Vow’s meaning and intent. It forces only such
acts as Harry Potter might choose himself, having learned that he is a
prophesied instrument of destruction. For the capacity for choice must
also exist, to be sacrificed. Do you understand, Mr White?”

“I—I think so—oh, Master, please, do not let the Vow be so long—”

“Silence, fool, you do a more useful thing this day than you have ever
done. Mr Grim?”

“I think, Master, that it must be repeated to me.”

Voldemort smiled that too-wide smile, and said it all again using
different words.

“And now,” Voldemort said coldly, “Harry Potter, you will keep your wand
low, and permit Mr Grim to touch his wand to yours; and you will speak
such words as I direct you. If Harry Potter speaks any other word, then
cut him down, the rest of you.”

“Yes, Master,” came the thirty-four-fold chorus.

Harry was chilled, and shivering, and not only because he was naked in
the night. He didn’t understand why Voldemort was not just killing him.
There seemed to be only a single line leading into the future, and it
was Voldemort’s chosen line, and Harry did not know what came after
this.

“Mr White,” said Voldemort. “Touch your wand to Harry Potter’s hand, and
repeat these words. Magic that flows in me, bind this Vow.”

Mr White spoke those words. Even through the distortion effect of his
mask, it sounded as though his heart were breaking.

Behind Voldemort the obelisks chanted, a language that Harry did not
know; three times they repeated their words, then fell silent.

“Mr Grim,” said Voldemort. “Think of the reasons why you might trust
this boy, if he had given this oath freely. Think of that potential for
trust, and sacrifice it as you say…”

“By my trust that I hold for you,” said Mr Grim, “be you held.”

And then it was Harry Potter’s turn to repeat Lord Voldemort’s words,
and Harry did so.

“I vow…” Harry said. His voice shook, but he spoke. “That I shall not…
by any act of mine… destroy the world… I shall take no chances… in not
destroying the world… if my hand is forced… I may take the course… of
lesser destruction over greater destruction… unless it seems to me that
this Vow itself… leads to the world’s end… and the friend… in whom I
have confided honestly… agrees that this is so. By my own free will…”
Harry could feel it, as the rite was invoked, the shining cords of power
wrapping around his wand and Mr Grim’s wand, wrapping around his hand
where Mr White’s wand touched it, wrapping around his self on some
disturbingly abstract level. Harry could feel himself invoking his power
of free choice, and he knew that his next words would sacrifice it, that
this was absolutely the last chance to turn back.

“…so shall it be,” said the coldly precise voice of Lord Voldemort.

“…so shall it be,” Harry repeated, and he knew in that moment that the
content of the Vow was no longer something he could decide whether or
not to do, it was simply the way in which his body and mind would move.
It was not a vow he could break even by sacrificing his life in the
process. Like water flowing downhill or a calculator summing numbers, it
was just a thing-Harry-Potter-would-do.

“Did the Vow take, Mr White?”

Mr White sounded like he was weeping. “Yes, Master… I have lost so much,
please, I have been punished enough.”

“Return to your places…” said Voldemort. “Good. All eyes on the Potter
child, prepare to fire the instant he tries to flee, or raise his wand,
or speak any word…” The Dark Lord floated high in the air, the
black-clad figure overlooking the graveyard. Again he held a gun in his
left hand, and his wand in his right. “Better. Now we shall kill the
Boy-Who-Lived.”

Mr White staggered. Mr Grim was laughing again, and so were others.

“I did not do that to be funny,” Voldemort said coldly. “We are dealing
with a prophecy, fools. We are snipping the threads of destiny one by
one; carefully, carefully, not knowing when we may first encounter
resistance. This is the order in which the next acts shall be done.
First Harry Potter shall be stunned, then his limbs severed and the
wounds cauterized. Mr Friendly and Mr Honour will examine him for any
trace of unusual magics. One of you shall shoot the boy many times with
my Muggle weapon, and then as many of you as can shall strike him with
the Killing Curse. Only then will Mr Grim crush his skull and brains
with the mundane substance of a tombstone. I shall verify his corpse,
then his corpse shall be burned with Fiendfyre, then we will exorcise
the surrounding area in case he has left a ghost. I myself will guard
this place until six hours have passed, for I do not fully trust the
wards I have set against Time’s looping; and four of you shall search
the surroundings for signs of anything noteworthy. Even after that we
must remain vigilant for any sign of Harry Potter’s renewed presence, in
case Dumbledore has left some unimagined trick in play. If you can think
of any trick that I have missed in being sure that Harry Potter’s threat
is ended, speak now and I shall reward you handsomely… speak now, in
Merlin’s name!”

There was stunned silence amid the cemetery; no-one made to speak.

“Useless, the lot of you,” Voldemort said with bitter scorn. “Now I
shall ask Harry Potter one final question, and he is to answer that
question for my ears alone, in Parseltongue. Strike the boy down at once
if he answers with anything but hisses, if he tries to speak one word of
human speech.” Then Voldemort hissed, “Power I know not, it wass ssaid
that you would have. The Muggle Artss I have now learned of from you,
and I am already sstudying them. Your power over life-eaterss musst be
comprehended for onesself, or sso you ssay. If there iss any other power
you posssesss, that I may come to have, tell me of it now. Elsse, I
intend to torment certain of thosse you care for. Ssome livess I have
already promissed you, but otherss I did not. Your mudblood sservantss
in your little army. Your preciouss parentss. All sshall ssuffer for
what will sseem to them like eternitiess; and then I sshall ssend them,
broken, into the life-eater prisson to remember it, until they wasste
and die. For each unknown power you tell me how to masster, or other
ssecret you tell me that I dessire to know, you may name one more of
thosse to insstead be protected and honoured under my reign. Thiss alsso
I promisse and intend to keep.” Voldemort’s smiling expression now came
through as if it were a snake’s gaping fangs, and the meaning that
expression bore among snakes, a promise that whoever beheld the teeth
was to be consumed by them. “Wasste not time in thoughtss of esscape, if
you care for thosse oness. You have ssixsty ssecondss to begin telling
me ssomething I wissh to know, and then your death beginss.”

114. Final Exam

The following was posted at the end of Chapter 113:

This is your final exam.

You have 60 hours.

Your solution must at least allow Harry to evade immediate death,
despite being naked, holding only his wand, facing 36 Death Eaters plus
the fully resurrected Lord Voldemort.

If a viable solution is posted before 12:01 a.m. Pacific Time (8:01 a.m.
UTC) on Tuesday, March 3rd, 2015, the story will continue to Ch. 121.

Otherwise you will get a shorter and sadder ending.

Keep in mind the following:

1.  Harry must succeed via his own efforts. The cavalry is not coming.
    Everyone who might want to help Harry thinks he is at a Quidditch
    game.

2.  Harry may only use capabilities the story has already shown him to
    have; he cannot develop wordless wandless Legilimency in the next 60
    seconds.

3.  Voldemort is evil and cannot be persuaded to be good; the Dark
    Lord’s utility function cannot be changed by talking to him.

4.  If Harry raises his wand or speaks in anything except Parseltongue,
    the Death Eaters will fire on him immediately.

5.  If the simplest timeline is otherwise one where Harry dies—if Harry
    cannot reach his Time-Turner without Time-Turned help—then the
    Time-Turner will not come into play.

6.  It is impossible to tell lies in Parseltongue.

Within these constraints, Harry is allowed to attain his full potential
as a rationalist, now in this moment or never, regardless of his
previous flaws.

Of course ‘the rational solution’, if you are using the word ‘rational’
correctly, is just a needlessly fancy way of saying ‘the best solution’
or ‘the solution I like’ or ‘the solution I think we should use’, and
you should usually say one of the latter instead. (We only need the word
‘rational’ to talk about ways of thinking, considered apart from any
particular solutions.)

And by Vinge’s Principle, if you know exactly what a smart mind would
do, you must be at least that smart yourself. Asking someone “What would
an optimal player think is the best move?” should produce answers no
better than “What do you think is best?”

So what I mean in practice, when I say Harry is allowed to attain his
full potential as a rationalist, is that Harry is allowed to solve this
problem the way you would solve it. If you can tell me exactly how to do
something, Harry is allowed to think of it.

But it does not serve as a solution to say, for example, “Harry should
persuade Voldemort to let him out of the box” if you can’t yourself
figure out how.

The rules on Fanfiction dot Net allow at most one review per chapter.
Please submit only one review of Ch. 113, to submit one suggested
solution.

For the best experience, if you have not already been following Internet
conversations about recent chapters, I suggest not doing so, trying to
complete this exam on your own, not looking at other reviews, and
waiting for Ch. 114 to see how you did.

I wish you all the best of luck, or rather the best of skill.

Ch. 114 will post at 10 a.m. Pacific (6 p.m. UTC) on Tuesday, March 3rd,
2015.

ADDED:

If you have pending exams, then even though the bystander effect is a
thing, I expect that the collective effect of ‘everyone with more urgent
life issues stays out of the effort’ shifts the probabilities very
little (because diminishing marginal returns on more eyes and an
already-huge population that is participating).

So if you can’t take the time, then please don’t. Like any author, I
enjoy the delicious taste of my readers’ suffering, finer than any
chocolate; but I don’t want to hurt you.

Likewise, if you hate hate hate this sort of thing, then don’t
participate! Other people ARE enjoying it. Just come back in a few days.
I shouldn’t even need to point this out.

I remind you again that you have hours to think. Use the Hold Off On
Proposing Solutions, Luke.

And really truly, I do mean it, Harry cannot develop any new magical
powers or transcend previously stated constraints on them in the next
sixty seconds.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unsurprisingly, this led to a lot of reader submissions. An awful lot.

You can see the fallout on the /r/HPMOR subreddit. If you’re reading
this somewhere that the previous text isn’t a link, you can go to
https://www.reddit.com/r/HPMOR and search for “Help! My evil plan has
worked all too well!”

115. Shut Up and Do The Impossible, Part I

THE gibbous moon riding higher in the cloudless sky, the stars and wash
of the Milky Way visible in all their majesty within the darkness, all
these shone down upon the graveyard to bear witness from their
unimaginable distances.

In the instant when Harry had realised there was no way at all left to
save everyone, his mind’s voices had fallen away, become one, a single
purpose taking up every fraction of his mind.

Fifty seconds.

Forty seconds.

Harry’s eyes tracked slowly across the air, until his gaze landed on the
first Death Eater, the one closest to him.

Thirty seconds?

Twenty seconds?

“Time’ss almosst up—” hissed Voldemort.

“I do know ssecretss you would like to know,” Harry hissed. He didn’t
look directly at the Dark Lord as he spoke. “But mosst valuable
knowledge to you, I think, would be my ideass ass to how world might be
desstroyed. Yet, to tell you ssuch thoughtss might lead to desstruction
of world. Do not know prophecy, but if there iss prophecy, that makess
it more than ussually probable that any action I take might have that
effect. Or to tell you ssuch might prevent desstruction of world, ssince
you do sseem motivated to avoid it. Not allowed to make ssuch a
decission mysself. Would need to awaken and conssult girl-child friend.
Vow requiress.”

There was a long pause. The Dark Lord, floating above and behind the
curve of Death Eaters with levelled wands, began to laugh as Salazar
Slytherin had thought a snake would laugh, cold amusement in the form of
a hiss. “Do you know how to desstroy world, then?”

“Cannot deliberately try to imagine method. You might have way for
sservant to ssteal my thoughtss. Vow prohibitss. But ssusspect I could
devisse method, if girl-child ssaid to try.”

Harry’s eyes drifted slowly to another Death Eater, and another.

More snakish laughter. “Clever. You have my complimentss for thinking of
ssuch tacticss. But no.”

“Know it iss annoying, but with world and your eternity at sstake, would
you not—”

“Greater rissk to world in introducing ssuch complicationss, delaying
your end. I will sstudy Muggle ssciencess mysself, think of all you
might imagine. Now sspeak ssuch ssecretss ass you may tell me, or thiss
endss.”

Slowly Harry’s vision tracked across the graveyard in careful arcs,
ignoring the Dark Lord except as a floating blackness in his peripheral
vision. His mouth went on speaking with only half his attention. “Have
thought of idea you might not have conssidered, teacher. Your attempt to
kill me might fail in certain sspecific way desspite all your
precautionss, perhapss lead into my desstroying world later. Would not
ordinarily deem probable, but with prophecy at hand, may well be sso.”

Voldemort went still, in the air. “How?”

“Am not obliged to tell you.”

A cold anger began to seethe through the snakish reply. “Though I
undersstand well your dessperation and attempted clevernesss, thiss
beginss to annoy me. I will not withhold from killing you, for that iss
sstill greater rissk. To fail to tell me your thought risskss
desstroying world. Sspeak!”

“No. Vow doess not oblige me to any possitive action.”

The Dark Lord stared down at Harry Potter, who glanced up at the angry
face only briefly before his eyes went back to the next Death Eater.
Some of them were shifting their stances slightly, but they stood still,
and said no words as they levelled their wands. The silver skull masks
could not be read.

Then the Dark Lord began to chuckle again. “Ssurvive your death, you
think you might? No, child, my horcruxsess are not linked to you alsso.
I would know if they were. Or iss there other reasson you think you
might ssurvive beyond my wayss of enssuring your death?”

Harry didn’t allow himself to be distracted. The repeated failures
didn’t matter, they only led into the next action in the chain—but he
still needed a next action—

“Now sspeak a ssecret,” the Dark Lord hissed, “or I—”

“Life-eaterss will purssue you alwayss, hate you alwayss, sseek you out
wherever you go, if what I have jusst done wass ssuccesssful, I have
caussed them to be sset upon you! Guardian Charm ssecret will be beyond
you for long time to come, perhapss forever! Besst defence againsst
life-eaterss would die with me!”

“Thiss iss sstarting to become ssad…” the Dark Lord’s voice trailed off.
“Ah. I ssee. Life-eaterss resspond to exspectationss. You tell me I will
be hunted, I exspect to be hunted, they hunt me. Ssuch iss rare, but not
unheard-of. Valuable ssecret, yess. Can ssee many ussess.” A cruel
smile. “I sshall allow you to sselect one persson to be ssaved.”

“Mysself.”

“Would tell you to die with dignity, but knowing mysself, I know it for
futility. You have wassted my kindly gift jusst then by annoying me, and
I retract it. Any other ssecretss?”

“Yess. Really interessting oness, too. Ssome you are unlikely to figure
out on your own, not for very long time if ever. If I ssay I have told
you all that do not rissk world, will you not torment any of my friendss
or family? All of thiss sspeech sstarted becausse you left me no way at
all to ssave everyone.”

The Dark Lord stood still in the air for a long moment.

And Harry’s eyes went on tracking slowly across the graveyard, as his
hand remained tight upon his wand.

In the instant when Harry had realized there was no way left to save
everyone—

He couldn’t speak any incantation in English. But Transfiguration was
wordless.

There was no material in contact with his wand’s end except air, which
couldn’t be Transfigured. But Voldemort didn’t know about partial
Transfiguration, which Harry could use to Transfigure a tiny bit of the
material from his wand itself.

“You’re sstalling,” the Dark Lord said. “Jusst to delay death? Or with
other purposse?”

Harry said nothing, his other work slowing as his mind sought a
continuation of the conversation that would work even against the Dark
Lord’s will—

“Sspeak and tell me purposse, or thiss endss now and your friendss
ssuffer for lifetimess!”

“Lower Muggle weapon and do not point wand in my direction,” Harry
hissed, putting as much cold danger as he could into the snake’s voice.
“Sspeak no commandss to sservantss. I do posssesss capabilitiess of
which you are ignorant. Can usse one ssuch capacity to causse huge
exsplossion almosst insstantly, without sspeaking incantation. Sslay
your new body, all sservantss, Sstone sscattered to who knowss where.”

At his current level of practice Harry could Transfigure one cubic
millimetre as fast as he could apply his will and magic.

One cubic millimetre of antimatter.

It wasn’t a world-ending threat.

Voldemort could have been carved from stone. “You bluff, ssomehow.”

“Not bluffing. Sspeaking in ssnaketalk, I tell you, I can do it almosst
insstantly, before any sspell can be casst at me, I think. You know very
little of sscience ass yet. Power I would command iss sstronger than
processs that fuelss sstarss.”

“Vow will sstop you,” hissed Voldemort. “You cannot rissk world. Take no
risskss, none, with clever ideass!”

“Would not rissk world. I esstimated ssizze of exsplossion, nowhere near
that large.”

“You do not know, fool! Cannot be ssure!” Voldemort’s hiss was climbing
higher.

“I am reassonably certain. Vow will not sstop me.”

There was an increasing fury in Voldemort’s expression, and yet his hiss
carried a tinge of fear. “I sshall wreak pain beyond imagining on all
you care for—”

“Sshut up. I dissregard all ssuch threatss now, ass theory of gamess
ssayss I sshould. Only reasson you make threatss iss that you exspect me
to resspond.” That, too, Harry had truly understood in the last
extremity. “Offer me ssomething I want, teacher. For your new body, for
your continued holding of Sstone, for livess of your sservantss.”

Harry’s mouth was running on automatic, his real attention elsewhere.

Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a fraction of a
line…

From a tiny spot on the end of Harry’s wand, a cubic millimetre of
anchor, stretched out a thin line of Transfigured spider-silk. It would
have broken at once, if tested; it would have gone unremarked, if any
had noticed its glint. Less than a tenth of a millimetre in
cross-section, the tiny shape represented by the extended line of
spider-silk was something Harry could Transfigure swiftly, ten
centimetres of length to a cubic millimetre of total volume; and Harry
could Transfigure a cubic millimetre in a fraction of a second. He was
forcing the Transfiguration outward, extending it through the air as
fast as he could without risking the transformation.

The tracing line of spider-silk looped around a Death Eater’s hood at
neck level, returned to the pattern of threads.

Voldemort’s face was now impassive. “You musst not leave here alive.
Ssenssible people called good would alsso agree, thiss I tell you in
ssnake’ss sspeech. But all your friendss I will treat kindly and protect
under my reign, if you agree to die now ass good persson sshould.”

The last Death Eater was looped. The pattern of spider-silk was
complete. The web had been drawn with loops around all the Death Eater’s
necks. The ends of those loops had been anchored to a central circle;
and that central circle in turn had three threads stretching across its
centre. The entire pattern still touching the anchor-line stretching out
of Harry’s wand.

Over the next seconds, those near-invisible threads of reflected
moonlight turned black.

Filaments narrower, stronger, and sharper than steel wire; braided
carbon nanotubes, each individual tube all a single molecule.

Harry hissed, “Want you to alsso promisse to treat nationss kindly under
your rule. Will not accept lesss.”

Voldemort hovered still in the air, snake-face showing a dawning fury.

The last two threads stretched out from the dark pattern, black threads
already in the form of nanotubes. They moved lightly through the air
toward the Dark Lord himself, toward the sleeve just above Voldemort’s
left hand that held the gun, toward the sleeve above the right hand that
held the yew wand, threads placed high at first to give them time to
drift slowly downward through the air. The threads looped around, went
over themselves, tied slippable knots. Began to tighten, coming closer
to the sleeve, as Harry Transfigured them shorter—

Harry felt the tickle of Voldemort’s power beginning to touch his own in
the back of his mind; at the same time the Dark Lord’s eyes widened, his
mouth opened.

And Harry Transfigured the black threads stretching across the black
pattern’s centre to a quarter their previous size, shrinking the circle,
yanking hard on everything attached, tightening loops.

(Black robes, falling.)

Harry wasn’t looking there, he didn’t see the falling masks, the blood,
in the back of his mind he felt some explosions of magic like he’d felt
when Hermione died but he ignored them, Harry’s eyes only saw the Dark
Lord’s hands and wand and gun dropping downward, and then Harry’s wand
was rising, pointing—

Harry screamed, “STUPORFY!”

The red bolt the colour of the Stunning Hex winged toward Voldemort,
blazing across the graveyard almost faster than the eye could see.

Without any hesitation despite his wounds the Dark Lord jerked down and
right through the air.

And the red bolt from Professor Flitwick’s secret Swerving Stunner
turned in mid-air and slammed into Voldemort.

The pain that flashed through Harry’s scar was searing, it made him cry
out and a red haze appear across his vision; despite everything, Harry
dropped his wand in pain and sheer fatigue.

As Harry let go of his wand, the pain began to clear—

116. Shut Up and Do The Impossible, Part II

SOMETHING like a fugue state had come over Harry’s mind. The absolute
state had partially worn off him, partially stayed with him. Elements of
his mind were numb, maybe deliberately numbed by some part that was
smart enough to predict what would happen otherwise. What he’d just
done—

The thought was shut off, making space for an awareness of other things.

Harry was standing in the middle of a haphazard graveyard, tombstones
scattered without order.

By moonlight and starlight, it could be seen that black robes littered
the ground, surrounded by textures that didn’t match the surrounding
graveyard earth, wetness tinged red in the moonlight. Some heads had
come loose from the surrounding hoods of the robes, revealing hair that
was long or short, dark or bright, which was all that could be seen
beneath the moon. The silver masks stayed on, making all the hair
originate in skulls instead of human faces—

The thought was shut off, making space for awareness of other things.

A girl in a red-trimmed Hogwarts uniform slept upon an altar. Near the
altar, Harry’s things lay in a heap.

Upon the ground lay a too-tall pale man of inhuman face, blood pouring
from the stumps of his wrists.

As soon as the Dark Lord Voldemort awakens, he will destroy everything
you love. Dumbledore is no longer there to stop him.

He cannot be imprisoned, for he can abandon his body at any time.

He cannot be killed permanently, not without destroying more than a
hundred horcruxes, one of which is the Pioneer plaque.

Materials: One wand, you are allowed to point it and speak this time.

You have five minutes.

Solve.

Harry stumbled toward the altar, knelt at its side, and picked up his
pouch.

He walked toward where Voldemort lay.

The sense of apprehension had diminished, after Voldemort had been hexed
unconscious. Now, as Harry approached, it rose to a terrifying height,
flaring also into pain in his scar.

Harry ignored the inner shriek. That had been the last memory of Tom
Riddle seared into Harry’s brain, the last cognitive pattern to be
transferred over into the infant baby before Tom Riddle had exploded: a
sense of mounting horror and dismay associated with the resonance that
had spun out of control. Harry knew the meaning of it now, that sense of
apprehension, and that made it easier to disregard. He’d guessed that
the effect of the resonance mostly hit the caster, with power
proportional to the caster’s power, and the bet had paid off.

Harry looked upon Voldemort’s body, and breathed deeply—through his
mouth, because coppery smells Harry was not thinking about were coming
in through his nose.

Harry knelt by Voldemort’s side, took out his medical kit from his
pouch, and placed a self-tightening tourniquet around the body’s left
wrist, then another tourniquet about the right.

It felt wrong, showing Voldemort that concern. Some part of Harry was
aware, in the back of his mind, that some number of people had just had
something extremely bad happen to them. What would have been balance,
what would have been justice, was if Voldemort had suffered the same
fate without an instant’s more hesitation. What Harry was doing now felt
like Batman showing more concern for the Joker than for the Joker’s
victims; it felt like a comic book where the writers wrung their hands
endlessly about the morality of killing the Big Named Villains while
innocents went on dying in the background. To show more solicitousness
for the head villain than his minions, to pay more attention to his fate
than the fates of his lower-status followers, was a flaw in human
nature.

So it felt wrong when Harry rose up from beside the body, the
tourniquets having tightened upon Voldemort’s wrists; it felt like Harry
was doing something ethically monstrous.

Even though any sane strategic thinking said that Voldemort’s body must
not die. The soul he’d created for himself had to be anchored in this
brain, it mustn’t be allowed to float free.

Harry stepped back, back from Voldemort’s unconscious body, breathing
deeply through his mouth. He went to the pile of his things, to put on
his robes and other items, starting with placing the Time-Turner around
his throat once more, readying his own escape and return if that was
required…

More than a hundred horcruxes.

That had been insane, there wasn’t any other word for it, a sign of
Voldemort’s damaged thinking about death. A Muggle security expert would
have called it fence-post security, like building a fence-post over a
hundred metres high in the middle of the desert. Only a very obliging
attacker would try to climb the fence-post. Anyone sensible would just
walk around the fence-post, and making the fence-post even higher
wouldn’t stop that.

Once you forgot to be scared of how impossible the problem was supposed
to be, it wasn’t even difficult, not by comparison to the last one.

Neville’s parents, for example, had been Crucioed into permanent
insanity. Two hundred advanced horcruxes wouldn’t prevent that insanity,
they would all just echo the same damaged mind.

It would be an ethically justified use of the Cruciatus Curse, if that
were the only way to stop Voldemort permanently. It would be justice,
balance, it would show that the Joker’s life wasn’t worth more than his
meanest henchman…

All Harry needed to do was cast the Patronus Charm, send it to… Alastor
Moody? …and tell him to come here. Well, no, it was a pretty good guess
the Patronus Charm wouldn’t work if it was cast with that intent. Maybe
just resolve to tell Moody that, and use his Time-Turner once he was out
of range of Voldemort’s wards.

And then Voldemort could be Crucioed into permanent insanity.

It wasn’t even the least merciful fate. That would have been throwing
Voldemort’s wand into the pit at Azkaban, if the wand stayed connected
to Voldemort’s life and magic no matter where his ghost tried to flee.

Harry turned to face where Voldemort lay. He walked forward, and
continued to control his breathing, ignoring the burning feeling in his
throat. Some part of him knew that Voldemort was also Professor
Quirrell, even though his body now was different. Even though the shift
of personality had been perfect and that meant that Professor Quirrell
had been just another mask…

Though Voldemort hadn’t planned to kill Harry painfully. Hadn’t thought
to strike Harry with his followers’ Cruciatus, when Harry was being
annoying before. That meant something, when your opponent was Voldemort.
Maybe he’d had some remaining shred of fellow-feeling for the other Tom
Riddle after all.

…it would be wrong to take that into account.

Wouldn’t it?

Harry looked back up at the stars. Here below the atmosphere the stars
twinkled, they were embedded in the false dome of the night sky,
stretched out across the wash of the Milky Way that glowed like a long
ribbon, as if they were all close enough that you could fly up to them
on a broomstick and touch them.

What would they want him to do now at this juncture, the children’s
children’s children?

The answer to that also felt obvious, if it wasn’t just the part of
Harry that still cared about Professor Quirrell doing the real talking.

Harry had needed to do the thing he’d done, it had prevented greater
evils, Harry couldn’t have stopped Voldemort if the Death Eaters had
fired first. But that thing Harry had done wasn’t something that could
be balanced by an unnecessary tragedy happening to one more sentient
being, even if that being was Voldemort. It would just be one more
element of the sorrows of ancient Earth so long ago.

The past was past. You did what you had to do, and you didn’t do one
scrap of harm more than that. Not even to balance things out, and make
it all symmetrical.

The children’s children’s children wouldn’t want Voldemort to die, even
if his minions had. They wouldn’t want Voldemort to hurt, if it didn’t
accomplish anything compared to him not hurting.

Harry breathed deeply, and let go of—not his hate—not quite his hate—he
hadn’t been able to hate his creator even at the very end—but even so,
Harry let go of something. Of the sense that he ought to hate Voldemort,
that it was a hate he was obliged to feel, for the endless list of
crimes that Voldemort had committed for no good reason, not even his own
happiness…

It’s all right, the stars whispered down at him. It’s all right not to
hate him. It doesn’t make you a bad person.

In the end, there was only one option he would take, and since Harry
already knew that, there was no point agonizing about it. Whether it was
the best option, only time would tell.

Harry breathed deeply, building up the magic inside himself. The spell
he was going to cast didn’t need to be precise, but it was still one of
the most powerful spells he’d mastered.

Harry thought again of how unjust it was that Voldemort could not die
with his followers, felt the slight trace of coldness in his blood that
came with thoughts of ruthlessness. And then Harry let it go, let it all
drain away beneath the starlight, because his dark side had never been
anything except an inherited pattern of cognition, just one more bad
habit of thinking to break.

Instead Harry looked at Hermione’s breathing form atop the altar, and
let the tears finally start from his eyes. What would become of Hermione
now, what path she would choose after this, Harry couldn’t guess; but
she would be there to have a choice, their friendship wouldn’t have
destroyed her existence. He hadn’t realised how shaky his hope had been,
until he’d noticed how surprised he’d been after the hope had come true.
Sometimes things did go better than expected.

And Harry took that thought, too, and put it into the magic he was
building.

The power he was storing up was vibrating in him, like his whole body
was part of his wand, either Harry’s eyes were blurring or there was a
luminous white quiver running over the holly. And Harry thought the
shape of the spell he would cast, he didn’t have much fine control but
the pattern he needed was simple, it just needed to include—

Everything, forget everything, Tom Riddle, Professor Quirrell, forget
your whole life, forget your entire episodic memory, forget the
disappointment and the bitterness and the wrong decisions, forget
Voldemort—

And at the last moment before Harry cast the spell, he had one final
thought, a note of grace—

But if you ever had any truly happy memories, not hurting people or
laughing at their pain, but the warm feeling of helping someone or being
helped, there won’t be many, maybe just when you were a child, but if
you had any truly happy memories then keep only those—

Something bright in him unfolded at the decision, knowing he’d made the
right choice, and Harry pushed that too into his wand—

“OBLIVIATE!”

And it all poured out of Harry into the spell.

Harry fell over on his side, dropping his wand, strangled screams coming
from his throat, his hands going helplessly to his scar, even as the
sudden blast of pain in his head began to fade. Only dimly did his eyes
see that the air was filled with glowing snowflakes, drifting motes of
silver light like tiny specks of Patronus Charm.

Only a moment the silver light lasted, and then it was gone.

Professor Quirrell was gone.

Nothing left but a remnant.

And that spirit, what remained of it, wouldn’t be so different now from
Harry’s own.

The Prophecy was complete.

They had each remade the other in their own image.

Harry started sobbing, then, from where he was curled up in the dirt.

He cried for a while.

And then eventually Harry staggered to his feet and picked up his wand
again, because this day’s work wasn’t quite done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry laid his wand directly on Voldemort’s wrist-stump; it made his
scar throb with an ongoing pain, but neither of them exploded.

And Harry began a Transfiguration.

Slowly—though faster than Harry had been able to Transfigure Hermione’s
body, last time—the stunned form of the snake-man changed, reshaped
itself. As the Transfiguration progressed, especially as the snake-man’s
head began to turn glassy and shrunken, the pain in Harry’s scar faded.

It would be a spell to maintain whether Harry was waking or sleeping;
and later, when Harry was older and more powerful and maybe had some
help, he would un-Transfigure the mind-wiped Tom Riddle and heal his
body with the power of the Stone. After future-Harry had figured out
what to do with an almost-completely-amnesiac wizard who still had some
bad habits of thought and some highly negative emotional patterns—a dark
side, as ’twere—plus a great deal of declarative and procedural
knowledge about powerful magic. Harry had tried his best not to
Obliviate that part, because he might need it, some day.

And meanwhile, just like magic hadn’t defined a Transfigured unicorn as
dead for purposes of setting off wards, Voldemort’s horcruxes wouldn’t
define a Transfigured Voldemort as dead and try to bring him back.

That was the hope, anyway.

Harry’s scar twinged one last time when the steel ring went on his pinky
finger, holding the tiny green emerald in contact with his skin. Then
his scar subsided, and did not hurt again.

An upthrust rock served Harry for a chair, when he staggered over it and
sat down motionless, resting after a fashion, shoving back the
exhaustion that threatened the corners of his mind. It was not done,
there was more to do.

Harry took another deep breath, still inhaling through his mouth, said
“Lumos,” and looked around the graveyard.

Black robes and severed skull masks, surrounded by pools of blood—

Hermione Granger, asleep on an altar.

Voldemort’s empty robes and bloody hands, lying where the Dark Lord had
fallen.

Quirinus Quirrell with his shredded robes, fallen in a heap where the
Killing Curse had stricken him.

Harry imagined someone else looking at this scene, trying to understand
it, and shook his head, because that wouldn’t do, it wouldn’t do at all.

Then Harry shoved himself up from his rock, grimacing as his mind, if
not body, protested. He hadn’t been bloodied or beaten much today, but
somehow Harry’s body was managing to feel like all the stress had hit it
directly.

Harry staggered over toward where Voldemort had fallen, and picked up
Voldemort’s left hand from where it lay upon the ground.

Even in just the left hand, you could see the faint trace of snake’s
scales; it was very distinctively Voldemort. That was good.

Harry went to the altar where the sleeping Hermione lay, and gently
placed the detached hand around Hermione’s neck, carefully moving the
fingers to clutch at her throat. It was hard to do, Hermione seemed so
peaceful and innocent when she was sleeping, and Voldemort’s severed
hand seemed so ugly; Harry bluntly overrode whatever part of his mind
was thinking that, since it made no sense in context.

A few weak Severing Charms served to mess up the almost perfectly fine
cut the nanofibre had made, which was critical; it would not do to have
the hand-stump look like the neck-stumps. The multiple Diffindos
scattered small bits of Voldemort-wrist all over Hermione’s shirt,
which, Harry had to remind himself, was also part of the plan.

Harry repeated this with the right hand, arranging it symmetrically with
the left.

Harry used Inflammare to singe Voldemort’s robes where they lay, and
then arranged the singed clothing around Hermione.

Voldemort’s gun, and his wand, went into Harry’s pouch. Harry placed the
Stone of Permanency in an ordinary pocket, he wasn’t sure what the Stone
might do to his pouch.

The heap of things from inside Quirrell’s robe, also near the altar,
yielded the wand that the Defence Professor had used when he was being
Quirrell. Harry went to where Quirrell lay, and straightened out the
body as best he could, and put Quirrell’s wand into his hand. Tears
predictably came to Harry’s eyes, and Harry wiped them away on his
sleeve.

Harry took another deep breath, still inhaling through his mouth, said
“Lumos” again, and once more looked around the graveyard.

Black robes, severed skull masks, and Hermione Granger lying on an altar
with Voldemort’s severed hands clutched around her throat, and
Voldemort’s singed clothing scattered around her. Quirinus Quirrell lay
dead with his clothes torn and shredded, his wand in his right hand.

That would do.

There remained the problem of calling attention to it.

Harry was very nearly out of magic at this point. But he still had
enough left to Transfigure a leaf into the deflated form of a
three-metre weather balloon.

Harry’s pouch produced a bottle of oxyacetylene, and a stick of
dynamite, and a spool of fuse-cord. Be prepared, that’s the Boy Scout’s
marching song, be prepared for a life that includes mountain trolls and
who knows what else…

Harry inflated the weather balloon with the oxyacetylene. That would
produce a very sharp overpressure when it detonated, maybe as loud as a
sonic boom.

He attached the stick of dynamite—it was overkill, for detonation, but
it would do.

He attached a 60-second fuse to the stick of dynamite, but did not light
it yet.

Harry put on his Cloak of Invisibility, that had been among the piles by
the sacrificial altar.

He obtained his broomstick from his pouch, and mounted it.

Harry cast a Quieting Charm around Hermione Granger—it wouldn’t stop all
the noise, not even close, and it wasn’t like she’d be permanently hurt
if her eardrums burst, but it still seemed polite.

And then that was it. The Quieting Charm had done it. Harry was drained
of magic for at least the next hour.

Harry mounted the broomstick, slowly rising into the air, lifting the
weather balloon filled with oxyacetylene with him. The castle Hogwarts
came into view, distantly gleaming in moonlight a few kilometres away,
as Harry rose above the trees; and Harry did his best to figure the
distance, and the angle as it would be seen from Hogwarts.

When he had risen high above the forest, Harry used a lighter to ignite
the fuse on the dynamite attached to the weather balloon full of
oxyacetylene. Then Harry spun the broomstick and darted away—though not
directly toward the castle, that might take him too close to the route
past-Harry and Professor Quirrell had traversed, it wouldn’t do to have
the Professor sense another Harry—

Harry felt a leaden stab of sadness, and refused it.

Thirty-one one-thousand, thirty-two one-thousand, thirty-three
one-thousand…

When Harry reached forty, not wanting to take chances with his own
eardrums, he glanced at his wristwatch, noting the exact time, and spun
his Time-Turner once.

117. Aftermath, Something to Protect, Part 0

AT first Anna had been gratified to see the final Quidditch Cup go on so
long—as a Gryffindor she was a bystander at the House Cup thing, it
wasn’t like Gryffindor ever won. In contrast, last year’s Quidditch
World Cup, to which her family had bought some very expensive tickets,
had been over in ten minutes, which was awful. Modern Quidditch games
had become too short, the Snitch caught much too quickly. It was a
widely-talked problem among aficionados: broomstick enchantments had
advanced, while the Snitch stayed the same regulation speed, with the
result that Quidditch games had become shorter and shorter. At
professional levels the sport of Quidditch had been reduced to a contest
of who had the deepest pockets for their Seeker’s experimental racing
broom, and the rest of the players might as well have been watching from
the stands.

Everyone knew something had to be done, the situation had been getting
worse for centuries and now it was intolerable. But the Confédération
Internationale des Comités des Magiciens de Quidditch was mired in all
the usual acrimony of the I.C.W., screaming disputes between Germans and
Bulgarians, and somehow nobody could agree on exactly how to fix the
rules. To Anna the correct course seemed obvious, just make the Snitch
fast enough to restore the four-hour or five-hour games of the early
nineteenth century and the Golden Age of Quidditch. Except the Belgians
thought the duration of a professional game should be two hours like in
La Belle Époque when Belgium had dominated Quidditch, and the lunatic
Italians wanted to go back to the week-long Quidditch games of the
fourteenth century, and Britain’s even crazier blood purists kept on
talking up the occasional day-long Quidditch match as proof that
broomsticks couldn’t really have improved since everything was better in
the old days which was not how the Interdict of Merlin worked.

She was one hundred percent on the side of Harry Potter that it was time
for Hogwarts to give up on those gibbering slow-coaches and just change
the rules, starting here and now. But not by eliminating the Snitch,
that was going all the way back to eleventh century Kwidditch. It didn’t
matter if Headmistress Hufflepuff had first introduced the innovation
because one of her students had wanted to play the game but not been
suited to the usual roles. Snitches had caught on internationally
because it was more exciting when the game could always end in the next
minute.

Anna had been arguing this viewpoint at the top of her lungs for the
last thirty minutes, quite forgetting to pay attention to the game.
Thanks to a lucky coincidence of seating she’d been near the
Boy-Who-Lived and his sign, and hence she’d managed to stake out her
position right from the start.

She was aware, in the back of her mind, that if the Quidditch rules
really did change starting here and now, then this was the most
important thing she’d ever do. She could almost feel the pressure of
Time twisting around her as though the fate of Quidditch Itself were
being settled this very day, and she was standing close to the centre of
it… though she hadn’t got high-enough scores in Divination to actually
sense anything like that, of course.

She hardly noticed when at one point the Boy-Who-Lived stood up to go to
the bathroom.

The Boy-Who-Lived did catch her eye when he trudged back; Harry Potter
looked a bit tired and wobbly, though his uniform appeared as trim as if
he’d just changed into a new one.

She noticed half an hour later on, when Harry Potter seemed to sway a
bit, and then hunch over, his hands going to cover up his forehead; it
looked like he was prodding at his forehead scar. The thought made her
slightly worried; everyone knew there was something going on with Harry
Potter, and if Potter’s scar was hurting him then it was possible that a
sealed horror was about to burst out of his forehead and eat everyone.
She dismissed that thought, though, and continued to explain Quidditch
facts to the historically ignorant at the top of her lungs.

She definitely noticed when Harry Potter stood up, hands still on his
forehead, and dropped his hands to reveal that his famous lightning-bolt
scar was now blazing red and inflamed. It was bleeding, with the blood
dripping down Potter’s nose.

She stopped talking mid-sentence. Other people turned to look at what
she was staring at.

“Professor McGonagall?” Harry Potter said in a wavering voice. There
were tears in the corners of his eyes, which shocked her; the
Boy-Who-Lived did not seem like the sort of person who would burst into
tears. Harry Potter raised his voice further, as though it were hard for
him to speak. “Um, Professor McGonagall?”

Professor McGonagall turned away from where she was arguing with the
Hufflepuff Quidditch team. The Head of Gryffindor’s eyes widened in
shock, and then she was moving people out of her way, almost running.
“Harry!” she said. “Your scar!”

Silence was spreading, in a widening circle.

“I think,” Harry said, his voice still wavering but louder, “I think
he’s back. I think I’m seeing—through Voldemort’s mind—”

Anna took a step back at You-Know-Who’s name and nearly fell over a
bench. An older boy standing next to her gave a cry of dismay, and then
the Boy-Who-Lived shrieked even louder.

“HE’S KILLING THEM!” screamed Harry Potter.

Half the Quidditch stadium turned to look at him.

“The ritual!” cried Harry Potter. “Blood of his servants! The blood, the
life! He summoned them, he took their heads, their blood, the life, to
renew his own—THE DARK LORD RISES, VOLDEMORT IS RETURNED!”

Madam Hooch blew a shrill whistle, and the Quidditch brooms that hadn’t
already stopped in mid-air began to slow. For herself she wasn’t sure if
this was a joke; if it was, Boy-Who-Lived or not, he was in more trouble
than she could even imagine.

Professor McGonagall raised her wand into position for a Quieting Charm
and Harry Potter caught her hand.

“Wait—” Harry Potter gasped, his voice lower, but still loud enough that
she and the people near her could hear clearly. “He can be stopped—I see
his mind, his mistake—he can be stopped now—THE WAY IS STILL OPEN! SHE’S
FOLLOWING HIM! SHE WHOM VOLDEMORT SLEW!” Harry’s voice rose further, as
Anna’s own mouth fell open in sudden confusion. “RETURN! RETURN, RETURN,
REVIVE AND STOP HIM! STOP HIM, HERMIONE!”

And then Harry Potter fell silent. He looked around at the people
staring at him.

She’d just about decided that this had to all be a prank in unbelievably
poor taste, when a distant but sharp crack filled the air.

Harry Potter swayed, and fell to his knees, even as her heart jumped
into her throat. An explosion of excited babble rose around them.

She could still hear the words from Harry Potter’s mouth, as Professor
McGonagall knelt next to him. “It worked,” Harry Potter gasped aloud,
“she got him, he’s gone.”

“What?” cried Professor McGonagall, then glanced around. “Quiet! Quiet,
all of you! Harry, what happened?”

Harry Potter was speaking rapidly but loudly. “Voldemort—tried to
revive—he summoned Death Eaters and he killed them, stole their blood
and life—Hermione’s body was there, I don’t know why, maybe Voldemort
was planning to use it for something—Voldemort came back, he resurrected
himself, but Hermione followed him back and she destroyed him, he’s
gone, it’s over. It happened in a graveyard near Hogwarts, it’s,” Harry
Potter rose to his feet, still swaying, “I think it’s in that
direction.” Harry Potter pointed in the rough direction the crack had
come from, “I’m not sure how far. The sound from there took twenty
seconds to get here, so maybe two minutes on a broomstick—”

With a motion so smooth it looked unconscious, Professor McGonagall
shifted into a stance and said “Expecto Patronum.” She addressed the
glowing cat that then appeared. “Go to Albus, tell him he must come at
once—”

“Dumbledore’s gone!” cried Harry Potter. “The Headmaster is gone,
Professor McGonagall! The Dark Lord trapped him, he reversed some kind
of trap the Headmaster planned and Dumbledore was caught outside Time,
he’s gone!”

The horrified babble around them rose in pitch.

“Go to Albus!” Professor McGonagall said to her Patronus.

The moonlit cat only looked at McGonagall sadly, and Anna sucked in her
breath in sudden horror, feeling like someone had punched her in the
stomach. It was real, it was all real, this wasn’t a joke.

“Professor McGonagall, Hermione is alive!” Harry Potter raised his voice
again. “She’s really alive and not an Inferius or anything, and she’s
still there in the graveyard!”

“A broomstick!” Professor McGonagall shouted. She turned to the players
hovering motionless over the Quidditch field. “I need a broomstick.
NOW!”

Despite everything, Anna raised a hand in mute protest, then caught
herself, even as the Ravenclaw and Slytherin Seekers came zooming over
(with excellent strategic sense, since they weren’t actually doing
anything).

Harry Potter was already retrieving another broomstick from his pouch, a
multi-person one.

Professor McGonagall saw this, and nodded firmly. “You stay here,
Mr Potter, unless there is some excellent reason you must be there. I
will go at once.”

“You mustn’t!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, who’d shoved his tiny way
through the crowd, occasionally running under someone’s legs. His eyes
were wide, he looked as though he wanted to faint. “You have to stay at
Hogwarts, Minerva! You—you’re the—” Professor Flitwick seemed to be
having trouble speaking.

Professor McGonagall spun around to face Professor Flitwick, and then
stopped, blood draining from her face.

Then she seized the broomstick from Harry Potter’s hand, and presented
it to the tiny half-goblin Professor. “Filius,” she said crisply. All
the incipient panic had disappeared from her voice, she now spoke in her
crisp Scottish accent as though addressing lessons on Monday. “Look for
the graveyard of which Mr Potter spoke, find Miss Granger. Apparate her
to St. Mungo’s and then stay by her.”

“I think—” Harry Potter said hoarsely. “I think Transfiguration might
have been used in combat there—Professor Quirrell tried to fight
Voldemort—take precautions—”

Filius Flitwick nodded without halting in getting on the broomstick.

“Professor Quirrell’s dead!” wailed Harry Potter. The anguish in his
voice carried clearly. “He’s dead! The Dark Lord killed him! His body—”
Harry Potter choked up. “It’s there, in the graveyard.”

She stumbled back again, feeling it like another punch in her gut.
Professor Quirrell had been—one of her favourite Professors, ever, he’d
made her rethink everything she’d believed about Slytherin, she’d known
in some distant way that he was probably going to die very soon but to
hear that he was really, truly dead…

The Boy-Who-Lived sat down on the bench, as if his legs couldn’t support
him any more.

Professor McGonagall turned to the crowd, touching her wand to her
throat. “QUIDDITCH IS OVER,” her amplified voice boomed out. “GO BACK TO
YOUR DORMITORIES—”

“DON’T!” screamed Harry Potter.

Professor McGonagall turned to look at him.

Tears were leaking down the Boy-Who-Lived’s cheeks, he looked like the
interruption had surprised himself as much as it had surprised anyone
else. “It was Professor Quirrell’s last plot,” Harry Potter said, his
voice breaking. The Boy-Who-Lived looked at the Quidditch players who
had now flown to nearby, as though speaking to them directly. “His last
plot.”

Harry Potter was floated off by Professor McGonagall to the infirmary.
The other Professors ran off to oversee who-knew-what, leaving only
Professors Sinistra and Hooch behind. At the stadium, rumours ran wild;
Anna repeated everything she could remember hearing as best she could.
Something had happened to Dumbledore, some Death Eaters had been
summoned and killed (no, Harry Potter hadn’t said which ones), Professor
Quirrell had gone out to face the Dark Lord and died for it,
You-Know-Who had returned and died again, Professor Quirrell was dead,
he was dead.

In time most of the students wandered off back to their dormitories, to
sleep if they could.

Anna stayed in the stadium, and watched the rest of the game, ignoring
her body’s need for sleep, and her eyes that often blurred with tears.

The Ravenclaw team put up a valiant fight.

But there was no Quidditch team anywhere that could’ve defeated the
Slytherins that day.

Dawn was tingeing the sky when the Slytherins won their final game, the
Quidditch Cup, and the House Cup.

118. Something to Protect: Minerva McGonagall

THE morning after had come, and all the students had gathered silently
around the four Tables of Hogwarts, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres
among them. He had collapsed in exhaustion last night and been awoken in
the infirmary next morning, still muzzy, with the Philosopher’s Stone
underneath his left sock.

The Head Table looked like a plague had swept it.

Dumbledore’s throne was gone from the Head Table, leaving the centre of
the Head Table empty.

Severus Snape was sitting in a floating seat, the magical equivalent of
a wheelchair.

Professor Sprout was missing. According to what Harry had been told last
night, a court Legilimens would examine her to see if any further
compulsions remained, but probably no charges would be filed. Harry had
emphasized to Professor McGonagall and the Aurors, as hard as he could,
that Professor Sprout was probably just a victim. The Boy-Who-Lived had
pronounced that he’d seen no evidence of Sprout’s intentional guilt in
Voldemort’s mind.

Professor Flitwick was missing, presumably still staying by Hermione’s
side.

Professor Sinistra was missing and Harry didn’t know why or where.

The numbness that surrounded Harry’s mind was like a Mylar blanket,
protective if not comforting. There were scenes in his mind of black
robes falling and blood spilling, appearing for an instant before being
shoved back. He’d process it later, not now. Some other time would be
better, future-Harry would have a comparative advantage at coping.

Somewhere inside Harry was the fear that it wouldn’t hurt, that there
would be no price to be paid. But that fear also could be put off into
the future.

No breakfast had appeared on the tables. The students sitting near Harry
were waiting in frightened silence. Owls had been prohibited from
entering or leaving Hogwarts since early last night.

The doors of the Great Hall opened once more, and forth came Deputy
Headmistress Minerva McGonagall. She wore robes of formal black, and her
head was bare, denuded of its usual witch’s hat. Her grey-brown-blonde
hair was done up in a coiled braid, as if in preparation for a hat to be
placed later; but for now Harry saw her head bare for the first time.

Minerva McGonagall came to the lectern that stood before the Head Table.

All eyes were upon her.

“I am afraid that I have much news,” Minerva said. Her voice was sad,
within its Scottish precision. “And most of it is terrible. First. The
reason I am the one to speak to you is that the Headmaster of Hogwarts,
Albus,” her voice stopped, “Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, has been
lost. You-Know-Who trapped him outside Time, and we do not know if he
ever can be brought back to us. We, we have lost, who may have been, the
greatest Headmaster, that Hogwarts has ever had.”

A susurration of horror arose across the tables, no audible gasps or
moans, just the sound of many intakes of breath; most from Gryffindor,
and some from Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw as well. The ill news had already
been known, but now it had also been said by authority.

“Second. You-Know-Who returned briefly, but is once again dead. All that
remained of him was his hands clutched around Miss Granger’s throat.
There is no more threat from him, or so we think.” Minerva McGonagall
drew in another breath. “Third. Professor Quirrell died with his wand in
his hand, facing You-Know-Who. He was found not far from where
You-Know-Who perished again, a victim of You-Know-Who’s Killing Curse.”
Another susurration of verified horror, now from all four tables.

Minerva drew another breath. “Last night we also lost what may have been
the greatest Defence Professor in the history of Hogwarts. His
scholastic merits alone… Our Defence Professor has gone by many names,
but his true name was David Monroe. As he was the last of the Noble and
Most Ancient House of Monroe, his funeral—his second funeral, and the
true one—will be held before the Most Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot, in
two days. Yet a wake shall also be held for the Defence Professor of
Hogwarts, for our own Professor Quirrell, in this castle. That man also
died a Hogwarts teacher, as nobly as a Hogwarts teacher ever did.”

Harry listened in silence, shoving down the tears that again rose to his
eyes. It wasn’t even true, let alone unexpected; and yet hearing it
still hurt. From where he sat beside, Anthony Goldstein put a comforting
hand over Harry’s hand, and Harry left it there.

“Fourth. One piece of exceedingly unexpected and happy news. Hermione
Granger is alive and in full health, sound of body and mind.
Miss Granger is being observed at St. Mungo’s to see if there are any
unexpected after-effects from whatever happened to her, but she appears
to be doing astonishingly well considering her previous condition.”

It should have produced wild cheers from Ravenclaw and Gryffindor, if
the news had come as part of any other package, or if it had been more
unexpected. As it stood, Harry saw a few smiles, but they were brief.
Maybe they’d jumped for joy earlier, but at the moment there was only
silence. Harry understood that. He wasn’t cheering either, not right
now.

“Finally—” Minerva McGonagall faltered, then raised her voice. “I fear
that I have the gravest possible news to share with some of our
students. It seems that You-Know-Who summoned those who were once his
followers; and many of them obeyed, whether from terribly misguided
loyalty, or out of fear for their families if they refused. A sacrifice
was required, it seems, to complete You-Know-Who’s resurrection; or
perhaps You-Know-Who blamed his former followers for his defeat.
Thirty-seven bodies were found, more followers outside Azkaban than
You-Know-Who was thought to have. I am afraid—” Minerva McGonagall
faltered again. “I am afraid that among the deceased are the parents of
many of our students—”

no no no no no no NO NO NO NO

As though by some terrible magnet, Harry’s eyes were drawn to the
picture of absolute horror that was Draco Malfoy’s face, even as the
comforting cotton wrap around Harry’s thoughts was torn away like thin
tissue.

How could he have not thought, how could he have not realised—

Somewhere in the background, someone was already screaming, and yet the
room seemed very silent.

“Sheila, Flora, and Hestia Carrow lost both their parents last night.
Students who have lost their fathers include Robert Jugson, Ethan
Jugson, Sara Jugson, Michael Macnair, Riley and Randy Rookwood, Lily Lu,
Sasha Sproch, Daniel Gibson, Jason Gross, Elsie Ambrose—”

Maybe Lucius realised, maybe he was smart enough to stay away, maybe he
realised that Voldemort was the one who struck at Draco—

“—Theodore Nott, Vincent Crabbe, Gregory Goyle, Draco Malfoy. This
concludes the list.”

One student sitting at the Gryffindor table let out a single cheer, and
was immediately slapped by the Gryffindor witch sitting nearby hard
enough that a Muggle would have lost teeth.

“Thirty points from Gryffindor and detention for the first month of next
year,” Professor McGonagall said, her voice hard enough to break stone.

“Lies!” shrieked a tall Slytherin, who’d risen up from that table.
“Lies! Lies! The Dark Lord will return, and he’ll, he’ll teach you all
the meaning of—”

“Mr Jugson,” said Severus Snape’s voice. It was also faltering, it
didn’t sound like the Potions Master at all, it wasn’t loud and yet the
Slytherin fell silent. “Robert. The Dark Lord killed your father.”

Robert Jugson let out a scream of terrific fury and turned to run out of
the room, and Draco Malfoy folded in on himself like a collapsing house
and made sounds that nobody heard, because the babble was starting up
now.

Harry rose six inches from the bench and then stopped.

What would you say to Draco there is nothing you can say to Draco you
can’t go over there now and pretend to be his friend. You want to make
it right you want to make it better but you cannot make it right there
is no way you can make right what you have done to him what you did to
Vincent to Gregory what you did to Theodore…

The world blurred around Harry, he barely saw Padma Patil rise up and
make her way toward the Slytherin table and Draco, or Seamus heading
towards Theodore.

And because Harry had read his father’s science-fiction and fantasy
collection, because he had already read this scene a dozen times over
when it happened to other protagonists, there was an image in Harry’s
mind of Mad-Eye Moody, of the scarred man called Alastor. And Mad-Eye’s
image was saying, in just the same voice he’d used to speak to Albus
Dumbledore in memory, that the Death Eaters had been pointing their
wands at Harry, that they had already chosen to take the Dark Mark, that
they had been guilty of sins beyond reckoning and maybe beyond Harry’s
imagination, that they had foregone the deontological protection of good
people and made themselves targets if there was a strong reason to
sacrifice them. That it had been necessary to save Harry’s innocent
parents from torture and Azkaban, that it had been necessary to protect
the world from Voldemort. That plain old ordinary Aurors and judges had
to do much more morally questionable things than killing sworn and
blooded Death Eaters who were pointing wands at them, in the course of
carrying out ordinary justices that were less clear-cut but still
necessary to society. If it were not right to do what Harry had done, if
it were not right to do much more morally ambiguous things than what
Harry had done, then society as human beings knew it could not exist.
Nobody with common sense would blame Harry for doing it, Neville
wouldn’t blame him, Professor McGonagall wouldn’t blame him, Dumbledore
wouldn’t blame him, even Hermione would tell him it had been the right
thing to do once she knew.

And all of this was true.

Just as it was also true that some part of Harry’s mind had calculated
that wiping out the blood-purist political elite would make it easier
and more convenient to rebuild magical Britain afterwards. It hadn’t
been an important consideration, but it had still been calculated in
those instants of rapid thought, a check on the long-term consequences
to see if they rated as catastrophic, and a decision that they actually
rated as pretty much okay. And that check had forgotten that Death
Eaters had children at Hogwarts or that one of them wore the face of
Draco’s father. It wouldn’t have changed anything. It wouldn’t have
changed anything at all. But that was the truth of the calculation
Harry’s mind had performed, given only seconds to think.

At least Harry could, if the Death Eaters’ survivors were in any sort of
financial trouble, do something about that easily enough. Transfigure
gold, and use the Stone to make it permanent—unless making that much
gold would be troublesome to the wizard economy at large, or cause
objections from goblins who didn’t understand market monetarist
economics—though it wasn’t as though Harry didn’t also have useful
services to sell—

Other cotton wrap was also being torn off Harry’s thoughts, now.

“It seems likely,” Minerva said, her voice was not loud but it cut
through all other sounds, “that some of our students will also have been
stripped last night of those named as their guardians. Should you end up
a ward of Hogwarts, please know that I will take the responsibilities of
my position with extreme seriousness. You will be extended every
courtesy. Your family’s vault will be managed well and truly. As best I
can, I will treat every one of you as I would my own children—and I will
protect you as much as I would protect my own children, no more, no
less. I hope that is clear to everyone at Hogwarts.”

Students nodded rapidly.

“Good,” Minerva said. Her voice sank back. “Then there is one more thing
that must be done.”

With a sad, solemn air, Professor Sinistra emerged from a side entrance.
She was wearing white robes instead of her usual brown, and instead of
her customary witch’s hat, she was wearing a many-tasselled square hat
whose colours had faded into mostly grey.

In her hands, Professor Sinistra carried the Sorting Hat.

With the air of someone carrying out a ceremony that had not changed in
centuries, Aurora Sinistra knelt, on one knee, before Minerva
McGonagall, presenting to her the Sorting Hat in both hands.

Minerva McGonagall took the Sorting Hat from Professor Sinistra’s hands,
and placed it on her own head.

There was a long silence.

“HEADMISTRESS!”

“As Albus Dumbledore is not dead,” Minerva said, her voice so low that
students strained to hear it, “but only taken from us, I accept this
position in the capacity of Acting Headmistress only—until Dumbledore’s
return.”

A piercing cry split the Great Hall, and Fawkes was there, overflying
all Four Tables in a slow spiral arc. He passed over each of the tables,
humming in his bird’s voice, a hum of absolute loyalty that would
outlast the death of merely physical fires. Wait, the hum seemed to say.
Wait until his return, and be true.

Fawkes circled Minerva McGonagall three times, feathered wings brushing
around her as the tears began to creep down her cheeks; then the bird
flew out a window above the Hall, and was gone.

119. Something to Protect: Professor Quirrell

THE Sun shone down on the Scottish green, striking sparks of reflected
white from every passing dewdrop or reflective leaf that happened to
position itself correctly, a clear blue sky for a funeral.

Harry had declined to give the eulogy. He’d declined for the second
time. Professor Flitwick had asked him about it weeks ago in May, to
give Harry time to write his lines before it would become necessary to
speak; and Harry had said no then, too.

So it fell to a sixth-year Gryffindor, Oliver Habryka, who had the
fourth-highest total of Quirrell points among all the students, and who
had been General of an army. The seventeen-year-old boy was tall and not
especially handsome in solid black robes; instead of a red tie, he was
wearing a purple tie such as Professor Quirrell had sometimes favoured.

Speaking, under the circumstances, extempore. The previous eulogies,
written well in advance, had been discarded; Oliver Habryka had a
parchment in his left hand, but he wasn’t looking at it at all.

“Professor Quirrell was very sick,” the tall boy said, his wavering
voice falling into a hush of students, occasionally broken by a muffled
sob. “I think if Professor Quirrell had been able to fight in the
fullness of his power, You-Know-Who couldn’t have beat him easily, and
maybe not at all. They say that David Monroe was the only one that
You-Know-Who was ever afraid of, in his day. But,” Oliver’s voice broke,
“Professor Quirrell wasn’t in the fullness of his power. He was very
sick. He had trouble walking by himself. And he went to face the Dark
Lord, alone.”

There was a pause, then, while the students cried for a while.

Oliver wiped away his tears with his sleeve, and spoke again. “We don’t
know exactly what happened,” said Oliver. “I imagine the Dark Lord
laughed at him. Maybe made fun of the Professor, for challenging him
when he couldn’t stand up. Well, he’s not laughing now, is he.”

There were fierce nods from the students; all of them that Harry could
see, from Gryffindor to Slytherin.

“Maybe the Dark Lord knew some way of curing Professor Quirrell,
You-Know-Who did come back from the dead after all. Maybe he offered
Professor Quirrell his life if Professor Quirrell would serve him.
Professor Quirrell smiled, and told the Dark Lord it was time for them
to play a game called Who’s The Most Dangerous Wizard In The World.”

If you don’t know, don’t just make stuff up. But Harry didn’t say
anything. It was what Lord Voldemort might have tried, it was what
Professor Quirrell might have said back.

“And they aren’t telling us everything,” Oliver said, “but we can guess
what happened next. We all know that Hermione Granger, who was one of
the Professor’s best students, was killed by a troll earlier this year,
it must have been the Dark Lord who made it happen, just like he framed
her for the Blood-Cooling Charm. Professor Quirrell knew the Dark Lord
was behind it, so he stole Miss Granger’s body and preserved it, kept it
safe—”

Couldn’t blame him for that one.

“Then Professor Quirrell went out to face the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord
killed Professor Quirrell. And Hermione Granger came back to life. They
say she’s alive and whole now, and maybe something more. When the Dark
Lord tried to seize her, all that was left of him afterwards was his
burned robes and his hands around Miss Granger’s throat. Just as Harry
Potter was protected from the Killing Curse by his mother’s love and
sacrifice, Professor Quirrell willingly going out, to face, the Dark
Lord alone, must have called, Hermione Granger’s spirit, back from, from
wherever, she was—” Oliver’s voice was breaking.

“Not just like that,” Harry said from the front row of seats, his own
voice hoarse. He had to say something at this point, before it got out
of control. If it wasn’t already out of control. “David Monroe was a
powerful wizard, more powerful than anyone knew except him and me. I
don’t think you can bring someone back from the dead just by sacrificing
yourself. No-one should try doing it that way.”

Such a beautiful story. It should have been true. It should have been
true.

“I don’t know very much about the person behind the Professor,” Oliver
Habryka said, after he got himself under control again. “I know David
Monroe wasn’t a happy man. He never could cast a Patronus Charm.”

Tears were gathering in Harry’s eyes again. It wasn’t right, it wasn’t
fair, Voldemort had killed so many people, he should have died along
with his followers, he didn’t deserve special treatment. But it hadn’t
just been Harry’s weakness, it had been the horcruxes, Voldemort
couldn’t have been killed outright. So Harry could admit it, he was
glad, he was glad Professor Quirrell wasn’t all gone…

“But I, know,” said Oliver, tears glistening on his own cheeks,
“Professor Quirrell, is happy, wherever, he is now.”

On Harry’s left hand, a tiny emerald glowed bright beneath the morning
sun.

Not Heaven, not some faraway star, not a different place but a better
person, I’ll show you, some day I’ll show you how to be happy—

The tall boy glanced down at a parchment he held in his other hand, the
first time he’d consulted it. “Professor Quirrell,” Oliver said, his
voice now fiercer and faster, “was, by far, the best Professor of Battle
Magic that Hogwarts ever had. Salazar Slytherin couldn’t have been half
as good a teacher, no matter what spells he knew. Professor Quirrell
told us at the beginning of this year that what he taught us would
always be our firm foundation in the arts of Defence. And it will be.
Forever. We’ll teach it to the new students next year, no matter who we
have for a professor. The older students will teach the younger ones.
That’s the solution to the curse on the Defence position. We won’t sit
around waiting for authority to teach us. And we’ll make sure that
Professor Quirrell’s teachings never die out of Hogwarts.”

Harry looked at where Professor—no, Headmistress McGonagall—was sitting,
and saw the Headmistress nodding silently, a look that was sad and stern
and proud.

“They haven’t let us see Miss Granger yet,” Oliver said. His voice
quavered. “The Girl-Who-Revived. But I’ll always think of the Defence
Professor when I see her. His sacrifice lives on in her, just as his
teachings live on in us.” Oliver glanced at where Harry sat, then looked
down again at the parchment. “Here’s to Professor Quirrell, then, the
best Slytherin that ever was, what every Slytherin should be! Three
cheers for him!”

“Huzzah! Huzzah! Huzzah!”

No-one stayed silent this time, not a single student that Harry could
see.

120. Something to Protect: Albus Dumbledore

HARRY stood now before the gargoyles that guarded the Headmaster’s, no,
the Headmistress’s office. He had been summoned by Professor Sinistra,
told that it was an emergency, but the gates were not opening for him.

Experiment had showed that the Stone made one Transfiguration permanent
every three minutes and fifty-four seconds, irrespective of the size of
object Transfigured. Just once, holding the Philosopher’s Stone up to
the light of Harry’s most powerful torch in an otherwise darkened
cupboard, Harry had thought he’d seen an array of tiny points inside the
chunk of crimson glass; but Harry hadn’t been able to see it again, and
now suspected himself of having imagined it. The Stone had no other
powers that Harry could detect, nor did it respond to any attempted
mental commands.

Harry had given himself until noon tomorrow to figure out how to begin
using the Stone without it being grabbed by someone else, trying not to
think about what was still happening, what had always been happening, in
the meanwhile.

Ten minutes late, Minerva McGonagall approached, moving in a swift
stride. Her arms were full of papers, she was once again wearing the
Sorting Hat.

The gargoyles, with a brief sound of grinding stone, bowed low before
her.

“The new password is ‘Impermanence’,” Minerva said to the gargoyles, and
they stepped aside. “I’m sorry, Mr Potter, I was delayed—”

“Understood.”

Minerva mounted the long spiral stairs, climbing instead of waiting to
be carried, Harry following behind her.

“We are meeting with Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of Magical
Law Enforcement; with Alastor Moody, whom you have met; and with
Bartemius Crouch, Director of the Department of International Magical
Cooperation,” Minerva said as she climbed. “They are Dumbledore’s heirs
as much as you or I.”

“How—how’s Hermione doing?” Harry hadn’t had a chance to ask until now.

“Filius said she seemed rather in shock, which I suppose is not
surprising. She asked where you were, was told you were at a Quidditch
game, asked where you really were, and refused to speak with anyone
about what happened until she was allowed to talk with you. She was
taken to St. Mungo’s, where,” the Headmistress now sounded slightly
perturbed, “a standard diagnostic Charm showed Miss Granger as a healthy
unicorn in excellent physical condition except that her mane needs
combing. Charms to detect active magic have each time detected her as
being in the process of transforming into another shape. There was an
Unspeakable who showed up before Filius, ah, removed him. He performed
certain spells he probably ought not to have known, and declared that
Hermione’s soul was in healthy condition but at least a mile away from
her body. At that point the senior healers gave up. She’s currently
alone in a cell with the rats and flies—”

“She’s what?”

“I’m sorry, Mr Potter, that’s Transfiguration jargon. Miss Granger is in
an isolation chamber with a cage of tame rats, and a box of flies that
will bear offspring in a single day. Logic suggests that whatever
mystery underlies her resurrection, it left behind an emanation that is
causing the healers’ Charms to produce gibberish. But if nothing happens
to the rats or to the flies’ offspring, Miss Granger will be declared
safe to return to Hogwarts after she wakes up again tomorrow morning.”

Harry still wasn’t sure… wasn’t sure at all, what Hermione would think
of having been resurrected, at least under these particular
circumstances. He didn’t actually think Hermione would yell at him for
doing it wrong. That was just Harry’s brain trying to imagine her as a
stereotype. Harry had been legitimately exhausted and not thinking very
straight when he’d come up with that cover story, and Hermione would
probably understand that part. But he couldn’t imagine what Hermione
would think…

“I wonder how Miss Granger will feel about having also vanquished
You-Know-Who,” Minerva said reflectively, climbing the moving stairs
fast enough that Harry felt out of breath trying to keep up. “And people
believing the most interesting things about her.”

“You mean, because she’s always self-identified as a normal academic
genius, and now a bunch of people think of her as the Girl-Who-Revived
and everyone wants to shake her hand?” Harry said. Even though she
doesn’t remember doing anything to earn it. Even though it was all
someone else’s work and other people’s sacrifices, and she’s getting the
credit. Even though she doesn’t feel like she’s actually done anything
worthy of the way other people treat her, and she’s not sure if she can
ever live up to the person they imagine. “Gosh, I don’t know, I can’t
imagine what that feels like.”

Maybe I shouldn’t have subjected her to it. But people had to be given
something to believe or heaven knows what they’d have made up. Feeling
guilty about this would be stupid. I think.

The two of them reached the top of the stairs, and came into the office
filled with dozens of strange objects, all facing a great desk and a
mighty throne behind it.

Minerva’s hand passed over one of those objects, the one with golden
wibblers, her eyes closing briefly. Then Minerva took off the Sorting
Hat and put it on a hat rack that held three slippers for left feet. She
transformed the mighty throne into a simple cushioned chair and the
great desk into a round table, around which four other chairs rose up.

Harry watched it all with a strange pang in his throat. He knew, without
either of them saying anything, that there should have been more
ceremony for the changing of the chairs, the changing of the table. Much
more ceremony, for the first time the Headmistress sat down in her new
office. But for whatever reason, there wasn’t time, and Minerva
McGonagall was discarding all that for speed.

A wave of Minerva’s wand lit the Floo-fire in the fireplace, even as
Minerva sat down into the chair that had been Dumbledore’s.

Harry quietly took one of the chairs around the table, sitting at
Minerva’s left.

Almost at once, the Floo-fire burned emeraldine and whirled out Alastor
Moody, who spun around with his wand raised, taking in the whole room at
a seeming glance, and then pointed his wand directly at Harry and said
“Avada Kedavra.”

It happened so fast, and took him so completely by surprise, that
Harry’s wand wasn’t even half-raised by the time Alastor Moody finished
the incantation.

“Just checking,” Alastor said to the Headmistress, whose own wand was
now pointed at Alastor, her mouth open as if to say words she couldn’t
find. “Voldie would’ve tried to dodge, if he’d taken over the boy’s body
last night. I’ll still need to check the Granger girl, though.” Alastor
Moody went to Minerva’s right and sat down.

Harry had thought, in that split second, to try producing a wordless
silver Patronus glow from his wand; but his wand hadn’t been in place to
intercept in time, not even close.

Well, if I was feeling invincible before, that does for that. What a
valuable life lesson, Mr Moody.

Then the Floo-fire burned green again, and spat out the oldest,
grimmest, toughest-looking witch Harry had ever seen, like beef jerky
given human shape. The old witch did not have her wand in her hand, but
she projected an air of authority that was stronger and stricter than
Dumbledore’s.

“This is Director Amelia Bones, Mr Potter,” said Headmistress
McGonagall, who’d regained her poise. “We are still waiting on Director
Crouch—”

“The corpse of Bartemius Crouch Jr. was identified among the dead Death
Eaters,” the old witch said without preamble, even as she continued
toward the chairs. “It took us entirely by surprise, and I’m afraid
Bartemius is in considerable grief about it, on both counts. He will not
be with us today.”

Harry kept the flinch inward.

Amelia Bones sat down in a chair, sitting to Moody’s own right.

“Headmistress McGonagall,” said the elder witch, still without
hesitation or delay, “The Line of Merlin Unbroken, which Dumbledore left
to me in regency, is not responding to my hand. The Wizengamot must have
a Chief Warlock who is trustworthy, at once; matters are in great flux
in Britain. I must know what Dumbledore has done, immediately!”

“Crap,” muttered Moody. His mad-eye was rolling wildly. “That’s not
good, not good at all.”

“Yes, well,” said Minerva McGonagall, who looked rather apprehensive. “I
cannot say that for certain. Albus—well, he clearly had an intimation
that he might not survive this war. But I do not think he was expecting
Miss Granger to come back from the dead and kill Voldemort only hours
later. I do not think Albus was expecting that at all. I am not quite
sure what his legacies will make of that—”

Amelia Bones rose half out of her chair. “You mean to imply that the
Granger girl may have inherited the Line of Merlin Unbroken? This is a
catastrophe! She is twelve years old, untested—surely Albus would not be
so irresponsible as to leave the Line to whoever happened to defeat
Voldemort, without knowing who!”

“Well, putting it simply,” Minerva said. Her fingers squared the
paperwork she’d taken with her, now lying on the desk. “Albus did think
he knew who would defeat Voldemort. There was a prophecy concerning it,
a verified one, which now seems to be in abeyance, or—I don’t know,
Madam Bones! I have one letter for Mr Potter that I am to give him in
the event of Albus’s death or other departure, and then another letter
that Albus said Mr Potter would be able to open only after he defeated
Voldemort. I am not sure what will happen to it now. Perhaps
Miss Granger will be able to open it, or perhaps it can never be
opened—”

“Hold up,” Mad-Eye Moody said. He reached into his robes, drew out a
long, grey-knobbed wand that Harry recognized; it was Dumbledore’s wand,
of a form and style not like any other wand in Hogwarts. Moody laid the
wand on the table. “Before we go any further, Albus left me an
instruction or two of his own. Pick up this wand, boy.”

Harry hesitated, thinking.

Albus Dumbledore sacrificed himself for me. He trusted Moody. This
probably isn’t a trap.

Then Harry began to reach for the wand.

It leaped up and flew across the table, into Harry’s hand. And the
moment that Harry’s fingers grasped the handle it was like he heard a
song, a pæan of glory and battle that resonated in his mind. A wave of
white fire ran up the handle and over the wood, magnifying as it moved,
bursting from the end in a tremendous spray of sparks. Through the wood
beneath his fingers ran a sense of strength and constrained danger, like
a leashed wolf.

Harry was also receiving an impression of distinct skepticism, as if the
wand had some level of awareness, and it was wondering how the hell it
had ended up being held by a Hogwarts first-year.

“Right,” said Mad-Eye Moody into the puzzled stares. “So it wasn’t
Miss Granger who defeated Voldie, then. Didn’t think so.”

“What.” Amelia Bones spoke the word flatly.

Mad-Eye Moody gave her a respectful nod. “Albus said this wand goes to
whoever defeats its previous master. Took it off old Grindie, he did.
Then Voldie defeated Albus, yesterday. Do I need to spell it out,
Amelia?”

Amelia Bones was staring at Harry, her mouth wide open.

“That might not be right,” Harry said. He swallowed another pang of the
awful guilt. “I mean, Voldemort used me as a hostage because I, I was
stupid, and Dumbledore gave himself up to save me, maybe the wand thinks
that counts as my defeating Dumbledore. Um, I did defeat Voldemort,
though. Vanquished him. But I think it’s better if nobody has any idea I
was there.”

Beep. Tick. Whirr. Ding. Poot.

“That must have taken some doing,” Mad-Eye said. The scarred man
inclined his head slowly, a gesture of profound respect. “Don’t feel too
guilty about losing Albus and David and Flamel, son, no matter how
stupid you were. You won in the end. All of us put together never could.
Just to check, son, you and David also destroyed Voldie’s horcrux? And
you’re certain it was the real thing?”

Harry hesitated, weighing up the probable consequences of trust, the
possible disasters of silence, and then shook his head to Moody in
reply. He’d been planning to tell at least McGonagall about what was now
inside her school, anyway. “Voldemort had… rather a lot of horcruxes,
actually. So instead I Obliviated most of his memories, then
Transfigured him into this.” Harry raised his hand, and silently pointed
to the emerald on his ring.

Splat. Boing. Splat. Splat.

“Huh,” Moody said, leaning back in his chair. “Minerva and I will be
putting some alarms and enchantments on that ring of yours, son, if you
don’t mind. Just in case you forget to sustain that Transfiguration one
day. And don’t go hunting any other Dark wizards, ever, just live a
quiet and peaceful life.” The scarred man took a handkerchief and wiped
at the beads of sweat that had now appeared on his forehead. “But well
done, lad, you and David both, may he rest in peace. This was his idea,
I’m guessing? Well done, I say.”

“Indeed,” said Amelia Bones, who had now regained her composure. “We all
owe the both of you a tremendous debt of gratitude. But I say again that
there is urgent business regarding the Line of Merlin Unbroken.”

“I believe,” Minerva McGonagall said slowly, “that I had best give
Albus’s letters to Mr Potter, right now.” At the top of her stack of
papers now lay a parchment envelope, and a rolled-up parchment scroll
sealed with a grey ribbon.

The Headmistress gave Harry the parchment envelope, first, and Harry
opened it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are reading this, Harry Potter, then I have fallen to Voldemort,
and the quest now lies in your hands.

Though it may shock you to learn, this was the end that I wished in my
heart would come to pass. For as I write this, it yet seems possible
that Voldemort may fall by my own hand. And then, in time, I shall
myself become the darkness you must overcome, to enter fully into your
power. For it was said once that you might need to raise your hand
against your mentor, the one who made you, who you loved; it was said
that you might be my downfall. If you are reading this, then that shall
never come to pass, and I am glad of it.

Even so, Harry, I would spare you this, the lonely fight against
Voldemort. I write this, vowing to shelter you as long as I can, no
matter the final cost to myself. But if I have failed, then know that I
am glad of it, in my own selfish way.

With my passing, there is none left to oppose Voldemort as an equal save
you. His shadow will fall long and terrible over magical Britain, and
many will suffer and die for it. That shadow will not lift until you
destroy its source, until you cleanse the heart of the darkness. How you
are to do this, I do not know. If Voldemort knows not the power you
bear, then neither do I. You must find that power within yourself, you
must learn to wield it, you must become Voldemort’s final judge, and I
beg you not to make the error of showing him mercy.

My wand, which I have left to you in Moody’s keeping, you must not dare
to wield against Voldemort. For when that wand’s master is defeated, it
passes to the victor in turn. When you have conquered my conqueror, then
the wand will answer truly to your hand; but if you try to turn it
against Voldemort before then, it will betray you for certain. Keep it
out of Voldemort’s grasp at all costs. I should advise you not to wield
that wand at all, yet it is a device of great power, which you might
need in some desperate case. But if you pick it up you must fear its
treachery at all times.

In my absence, the Wizengamot will inevitably fall to Malfoy. The Line
of Merlin Unbroken I have passed to you, with Amelia Bones as your
regent, until you come of age or come into your power. But she cannot
oppose Malfoy for long, not with myself gone and Voldemort returned to
advise him. Soon, I think, the Ministry will fall, and Hogwarts will
become the last fortress. To Minerva I have left Hogwarts’s keys, but
you alone are its prince, and she will help you however she can.

Alastor now leads the Order of the Phœnix. Heed his words well, both his
advice and his confidences. It is one of my life’s greatest regrets that
I did not heed Alastor more and sooner.

That you will in the end defeat Voldemort, I have no doubt.

For that will be only the beginning of your life’s destiny. Of that,
too, I am certain.

When you have vanquished Voldemort, when you have saved this country,
then, I hope, you may embark upon the true meaning of your days.

Hurry then to begin.

Yours in death (or in whatever),

Dumbledore.

P.S. The passwords are ‘phœnix’s price’, ‘phœnix’s fate’, and ‘phœnix’s
egg’, spoken within my office. Minerva can move those rooms to where you
can reach them more easily.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry folded up the parchment and put its back into the envelope,
frowning thoughtfully, then took the grey-ribboned scroll from the
Headmistress. When the long grey wand in Harry’s hand touched the
ribbon, it fell away at once; and Harry unrolled the scroll, and read
it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres:

If you are reading this, you have defeated Voldemort.

Congratulations on that.

I hope you had some time in which to celebrate before you opened this
scroll, because the news in it is not cheerful.

During the First Wizarding War, there came a time when I realised that
Voldemort was winning, that he would soon hold all within his hand.

In that extremity, I went into the Department of Mysteries and I invoked
a password which had never been spoken in the history of the Line of
Merlin Unbroken, did a thing forbidden and yet not utterly forbidden.

I listened to every prophecy that had ever been recorded.

And so I learned that my troubles were far worse than Voldemort.

From certain seers and diviners have come an increasing chorus of
foretellings that this world is doomed to destruction.

And you, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, are one of those foretold to
destroy it.

By rights I should have ended your line of possibility, stopped you from
ever being born, as I did my best to end all the other possibilities I
discovered on that day of terrible awakening.

Yet in your case, Harry, and in your case alone, the prophecies of your
apocalypse have loopholes, though those loopholes be ever so slight.

Always ‘he will end the world’, not ‘he will end life’.

Even when it was said that you would tear apart the very stars in
heaven, it was not said that you would tear apart the people.

And so, it being clear that this world is not meant to last, I have
gambled literally everything upon you, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.
There were no prophecies of how the world might be saved, so I found the
prophecies that offered loopholes in the destruction; and I brought
about the strange and complex conditions for those prophecies to come to
pass. I ensured that Voldemort discovered a certain one of those
prophecies, and so (even as I had feared) condemned your parents to
death and made you what you are. I wrote a strange hint in your mother’s
Potions textbook, having no idea why I must; and this proved to show
Lily how to help her sister, and ensured you would gain Petunia Evans’s
heartfelt love. I sneaked invisibly into your bedroom in Oxford and
administered the potion that is given to students with Time-Turners, to
extend your day’s cycle by two hours. When you were six years old I
smashed a rock that was on your windowsill, and to this day I cannot
imagine why.

All in the desperate hope that you can pass us through the eye of the
storm, somehow end this world and yet bring out its people alive.

Now that you have passed the preliminary test of defeating Voldemort, I
place my all in your hands, all the tools I can possibly give you. The
Line of Merlin Unbroken, the command of the Order of the Phœnix, all my
wealth and all my treasures, the Elder Wand of the Deathly Hallows, the
loyalty of such of my friends as may heed me. I have left Hogwarts in
Minerva’s care, for I do not think you will have time for it, but even
that is yours if you demand it from her.

One thing I do not give you, and that is the prophecies. Upon the moment
of my departure, they will be destroyed, and no future ones will be
recorded, for it was said that you must not look upon them. If you think
this frustrating, believe me when I say that even your wit cannot
comprehend what frustration you have been spared. I will die, or be lost
by you, or in some other way be taken from you—the prophecies are
unclear, naturally—without ever once knowing what the future truly
holds, or why I must do what I do. It is all cryptic madness and you are
well rid of it.

There can only be one king upon the chessboard.

There can only be one piece whose value is beyond price.

That piece is not the world, it is the world’s peoples, wizard and
Muggle alike, goblins and house elves and all.

While survives any remnant of our kind, that piece is yet in play,
though the stars should die in heaven.

And if that piece be lost, the game ends.

Know the value of all your other pieces, and play to win.

—Albus

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Harry held the parchment scroll for a long time, staring at nothing.

So.

There were times when the phrase ‘That explains it’ didn’t really seem
to cover it, but nonetheless, that explained it.

Absently Harry rolled up the parchment scroll in his fist, still staring
at nothing.

“What does it say?” said Amelia Bones.

“It’s a confession letter,” Harry said. “Turns out Dumbledore’s the one
who killed my pet rock.”

“This is not a time for jokes!” cried the elder witch. “Are you the true
holder of the Line of Merlin Unbroken?”

“Yes,” Harry said absently, his mind occupied with thoughts that were,
by any objective quantification, overwhelmingly more important.

The old witch was sitting very still in her chair. She turned her head,
and locked eyes with Minerva McGonagall.

Meanwhile Harry’s brain, which was juggling way too many possibilities
over way too many time horizons, some of them involving literally
billions of years and stellar disassembly procedures, declared cognitive
bankruptcy and started over. All right, what’s the first thing I have to
do to save the world… no, make it even more local, what do I have to do
today… besides figuring out what to do, that is, and I’d better not
delay before looking at whatever Dumbledore left me in the Phœnix’s Egg
room…

Harry raised his eyes from the rolled-up parchment and looked at
Professor—at Headmistress McGonagall, at Mad-Eye Moody, and at the
leathery-looking old witch, as though seeing them for the first time.
Though he was in fact seeing Amelia Bones for mostly the first time.

Amelia Bones, head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, whom
Albus Dumbledore had thought worthy to lead the Wizengamot at least
temporarily. Her cooperation would be invaluable, maybe necessary, for…
for whatever was headed Harry’s way. Dumbledore had chosen her, and he’d
read prophecies Harry hadn’t seen.

Amelia Bones, who had thought she’d been appointed regent over the Line
of Merlin Unbroken and made the next Chief Warlock, only to find that
instead the position had gone to, apparently, an eleven-year-old boy.

You will now, said the voice of Hufflepuff inside his head, you will now
be polite. You will not be your usual brand of bloody idiot. Because the
fate of the world might just depend on it. Or not. We don’t even know.

“I’m terribly sorry about all this,” Harry Potter said, then paused to
see what effect, if any, this polite statement had produced.

“Minerva seems to think,” the old witch said, “that you will not take
offense to honest words.”

Harry nodded. His Ravenclaw part wanted to include the disclaimer about
that being different from people blatantly trying to push you down while
crying that you were intolerant of criticism, but Hufflepuff vetoed.
Whatever she had to say, Harry would hear.

“I do not wish to speak ill of the departed,” the old witch said. “But
since time immemorial, the Line of Merlin Unbroken has passed to those
who have thoroughly demonstrated themselves to be, not only good people,
but wise enough to distinguish successors who are themselves both good
and wise. A single break, anywhere along the chain, and the succession
might go astray and never return! It was a mad act for Dumbledore to
pass the Line to you at such a young age, even having made it
conditional upon your defeat of You-Know-Who. A tarnish upon
Dumbledore’s legacy, that is how it will be seen.” The old witch
hesitated, her eyes still watching Harry. “I think it best that nobody
outside this room ever learn of it.”

“Um,” Harry said. “You… don’t think very much of Dumbledore, I take it?”

“I thought…” said the old witch. “Well. Albus Dumbledore was a better
wizard than I, a better person than I, in more ways than I can easily
count. But the man had his faults.”

“Because, um. I mean. Dumbledore knew everything you just said. About my
being young and how the Line works. You’re acting like you think
Dumbledore was unaware of those facts, or just ignoring them, when he
made his decision. It’s true that sometimes stupid people, like me, make
decisions that crazy. But not Dumbledore. He was not mad.” Harry
swallowed, forcing a sudden moisture away from his eyes. “I think… I’m
beginning to realize… Dumbledore was the only sane person, in all of
this, all along. The only one who was doing the right things for
anything like the right reasons…”

Madam Bones was cursing under her breath, low dire imprecations that
were making Minerva McGonagall twitch.

“I’m sorry,” Harry said helplessly.

Mad-Eye was grinning, the scarred face twisting up in a smile. “Always
knew Albus was up to something he never told the rest of us. Lad, you
have no idea how hard it is for me not to use my Eye on that scroll.”

Harry quickly shoved the scroll into his mokeskin pouch.

“Alastor,” Amelia said. The old witch’s voice was rising. “You are a man
of sense, you cannot think the lad is able to fill Dumbledore’s socks!
Not today!”

“Dumbledore,” Harry said, the name tasting strange on his tongue, “did
make one wrong assumption, when he made his decisions. He thought we’d
be fighting Voldemort for years, all of us together. He didn’t know I’d
vanquish Voldemort immediately. It was the right thing for me to do, it
saved a lot of lives compared to fighting a long battle. But Dumbledore
thought you would have years to learn me, trust me… and instead it was
all over in an evening.” Harry inhaled. “Can’t you just pretend we’ve
been fighting Voldemort for years and I earned your trust and
everything? So that I’m not penalised for winning more quickly than
Dumbledore expected?”

“You are still a first-year in Hogwarts!” the old witch said. “You
cannot take Dumbledore’s place, whatever his intentions!”

“Right, that whole ‘looking like an eleven-year-old’ thing.” Harry’s
hand came up, rubbed at his nose where his glasses lay. I suppose I
could just use the Stone, change myself to look like ninety…

“I am not a fool,” the old witch said. “I know you are no ordinary
child. I have seen you speak to Lucius Malfoy, watched you frighten off
a Dementor, and witnessed Fawkes grant your plea. Anyone with wisdom who
saw you before the Wizengamot—by which I mean myself and at most two
others—could guess that you had absorbed some portion of You-Know-Who’s
shredded soul on the night of his undeath, but subdued it and turned his
knowledge to good ends.”

There was a slight pause in the room.

“Well, yes, of course,” said Minerva McGonagall. She sighed, slumped a
bit in the Headmistress’s chair. “As Albus clearly knew from the very
beginning, but thoughtfully declined to warn me about in any way
whatsoever.”

“Right,” Moody said. “I knew that. Yep. Perfectly obvious. Wasn’t
confused at all.”

“I guess that’s close enough to the truth,” said Harry. “So, um. What’s
the problem, exactly?”

“The problem,” Amelia Bones said, her voice perfectly even, “is that you
are a bubbling, unstable blend of a Hogwarts first-year and
You-Know-Who.” She paused, as though waiting for something.

“I’m getting better about that,” Harry said, since she seemed to be
waiting on his reply. “Quite rapidly, in fact. More importantly, it’s
not something Dumbledore didn’t know.”

The old witch continued. “Giving away your fortune and going in debt to
Lucius Malfoy to keep your best friend out of Azkaban, as much as it
demonstrates your upstanding moral character, also demonstrates that you
cannot corral the Wizengamot. I can see now that you did the right thing
for yourself, the thing you had to do to maintain your lease on sanity
and hold back your inner darkness. But you also did a thing that
Merlin’s heir must not do. A sentimental leader can be far worse than a
selfish one. Albus, master and servant of a phœnix, was barely
survivable—and even he opposed you that day.” Amelia gestured in the
direction of Mad-Eye Moody. “Alastor has hardness. He has cunning. He
still does not have the talent for government. You, Harry Potter, do not
yet have the sternness, the capacity for sacrifice, to direct even the
Order of the Phœnix. And being what you are, you must not try to become
that person. Not now, not at your age. Align and fuse your divided soul
in your own time, if you possibly can. Do not try to be Chief Warlock
while you are doing it. If Albus thought that was a good idea, he was
crafting a nicer story at the expense of real-world practicality. I do
think the man had a problem with that.”

Harry’s eyes were a bit wide, listening to all this. “Um… what exactly
do you think is going on in here?” Harry tapped his head just above his
ear.

“I imagine that inside you is the soul of a boy who remains honest and
true, gathering his will to force down the fragment of Voldemort’s
spirit that tries to consume him, even as it howls at him that he is
sentimental and weak—did you just giggle?”

“Sorry. But seriously, it wasn’t ever that bad. More like having a lot
of bad habits I needed to break.”

“Ahem,” said Headmistress McGonagall. “Mr Potter, I think at the start
of this year it was that bad.”

“Bad habits that chained into and triggered each other. Yes, those are a
bit more of a problem.” Harry sighed. “And you, Madam Bones… er. Sorry
if I’m wrong about this. But my guess is that you’re feeling a bit upset
that the Line went to an eleven-year-old?”

“Not the way you are thinking,” the old witch said calmly. “Though it is
natural for you to suspect me. The position of Chief Warlock is not one
I will find pleasant, even compared to the horrors of Magical Law
Enforcement. Albus persuaded me on the matter, and I would say that I
took some convincing, but the truth is that I did not waste his time in
an argument I expected to lose. I knew I would hate the task, and I knew
I would do it anyway. Minerva says you have some amount of common sense,
especially when others remind you of it. Can you really see yourself
standing upon the Wizengamot’s high dais? Are you sure it is not some
remnant of You-Know-Who that imagines himself suited to the position, or
even desires it at all?”

Harry took off his glasses and massaged his forehead. His scar still
ached a bit, from the damage he’d done by picking at it yesterday until
it bled in a suitably dramatic fashion. “I do have some common sense,
and yes, being Chief Warlock sounds like a huge amount of aggravation
and a job that, in reality, does not fit me the tiniest bit. The trouble
is. Um. I’m not sure the Line of Merlin is just about being Chief
Warlock. There’s, um. I suspect… that there’s weird other stuff that
goes along with it. And that Dumbledore meant me to take responsibility
for the… other stuff. And that the other stuff is… possibly quite
amazingly important.”

“Crap,” Moody said. Then Alastor Moody repeated, “Crap. Kid, should you
even be saying this to us?”

“I don’t know,” Harry said. “If there’s a user manual, I haven’t looked
at it yet.”

“Crap.”

“And if these other matters require sternness and sacrifice?” Amelia
Bones said, still calmly. “If they test you as you were tested before
the Wizengamot? I am old, Harry Potter, and I am not without knowledge
of mysteries. You have seen how I was able to perceive your own nature
at nearly a glance.”

“Amelia,” Mad-Eye Moody said. “What would have happened if you’d had to
fight You-Know-Who last night?”

The old witch shrugged. “I would have died, I expect.”

“You’d have lost,” said Alastor Moody. “And the Boy-Who-Lived didn’t
just take out Voldie, he set it up so that his good friend Hermione
Granger came back from the dead at the same time Voldie resurrected
himself. There’s no way in hell or double hell that was an accident, and
I don’t think it was David’s idea either. Amy, the truth is, none of us
know what the keeper of Merlin’s legacy has to do. But we’re not the
right kind of crazy for this crap.”

Amelia Bones frowned. “Alastor, you know I’ve dealt with strange things
before. Dealt with them quite well, in my opinion.”

“Yeah. You dealt with the crap so you could go back to real life. You’re
not the kind of crazy that builds a castle out of the crap and lives
there.” Moody sighed. “Amy, on some level you know exactly why Albus had
to leave who-knows-what-job to the poor kid.”

The old witch’s fists clenched on the table. “Do you have any idea of
the disaster it would be for Britain? Call me sane, but I cannot accept
that outcome! I have worked too long toward this day to see it fall
apart now, now of all times!”

“Excuse me,” Headmistress McGonagall said, sounding quite precise and
Scottish. “Is there any reason why Mr Potter cannot simply instruct the
Line that Madam Bones is his regent for the position of Chief Warlock,
but not anything having to do with the Department of Mysteries, until he
comes of age? If Albus could tell the Line to appoint a regent only
until Voldemort’s defeat, it is clearly capable of following complex
orders.”

Slowly, this unexpected hammer blow of common sense was absorbed by
everyone present.

Harry opened his mouth to agree to appoint Amelia Bones his regent for
Wizengamot-related matters, and then hesitated again.

“Um,” Harry said. “Um. Madam Bones, I would much prefer if you took
charge of handling the Wizengamot instead of me.”

“In that we are agreed,” said the old witch. “Shall we let it be done?”

“But—”

There was a sort of frustrated dropping-back of the others. “What is the
problem, Mr Potter?” said the Headmistress, in a voice that indicated
she hoped it was nothing serious.

“Um. I think there’s a couple of things I might have to do very soon
that could… prove politically controversial, and in exchange for handing
over the Line’s political power to Madam Bones I’m going to want her…
um, cooperation on some things.”

Amelia Bones exchanged another long stare with Minerva McGonagall. Then
she looked back at Harry Potter.

“I am indignant at your request!” Amelia Bones said. “Your hesitancy has
told me that you are weak and unused to bargaining, and will probably
fold if I push back.”

Harry closed his eyes.

Slightly dark-tinged Harry opened them.

“All right,” Harry said, “let me rephrase. I don’t mean to interfere
with your work on a day-to-day or even month-to-month basis, but I can’t
just toss off the final responsibility that Dumbledore left me. I’m not
going to owl you bizarre parchments out of nowhere, there can be
discussions first, but at some point I may have to give you an order. If
you refuse the order I might have to take back the Line’s Wizengamot
functions and assume direct control. Can you handle that?”

“And if I say no?” said the old witch.

Slight, slight the dark tinge… “I don’t have an alternative to you lined
up. I could start by asking Augusta Longbottom who she thought might be
suitable and work from there. But it may be important that we keep to
Dumbledore’s plan as much as possible, since I don’t know exactly why he
did the things he did, and he thought Amelia Bones should be Chief
Warlock for a time. I’m not going to pull Merlin’s name on you, but… no,
strike that, I am going to pull Merlin’s name on you, this might or
might not be insanely important.”

The old witch thought for a time, her eyes going from person to person
around the table. “I am not satisfied with this,” she said after a time.
“But the Wizengamot must be called to order soon. It will do for now.”

Slowly the old witch reached into her robes, and took out a short rod of
stone, dark stone.

She placed the rod on the table before Harry. “Take what is yours,” she
said. “And then do please give it back.”

Harry reached out his hand to take it.

In the moment that Harry’s fingers first touched the dark stone—

—nothing happened.

Well, perhaps Merlin hadn’t been given to melodrama. That could explain
why his final legacy looked like a small, unassuming dark rod. If that
was all that was needed for its function, that would be all that was
there.

Harry took up the Line, frowning at it. “I’d like to appoint Amelia
Bones as my regent for Wizengamot-related functions.” Then, the thought
occurring to him that he needed to specify a stopping point to define a
regency, Harry added, “Until I say that I’ve taken it back.”

Then Harry made a face. He’d been hoping for more from the Line, but it
was just a key to places in the Department of Mysteries where
interesting things were kept, or to seals where Merlin and his
successors had stashed things that shouldn’t be destroyed but ought to
be kept from general circulation. Aside from that, the Line didn’t do
much.

The Line didn’t let you bypass the Interdict of Merlin either. No, not
even if the fate of the galaxy was at stake. Not even if the person
seemed sane, had taken an Unbreakable Vow, and honestly believed the
world was about to be destroyed otherwise.

Merlin had dreamed of a long run, a world that would last for æons and
not just centuries. The world had no reason not to last forever, if the
truly dangerous powers were removed and kept gone. Conversely, a single
loophole in the safeguards made the world’s destruction only a matter of
time. Someday Merlin’s Line would pass to the wrong person. It could
reject the obviously unworthy, but eventually it would pass into hands
too subtly flawed for the Line to detect. This was inevitable, when
dealing with human beings, and Harry needed to keep that in mind before
he sealed something where future Line-holders could retrieve it—the
disaster of its inevitable misuse some day needed to be outweighed by
its benefits over the next few thousand years.

Harry let out a sad small sigh, under his breath. Merlin, you idiot…

Thinking that didn’t unlock any final safeguards.

There wasn’t anything currently on fire in the Department of Mysteries,
so Harry carefully placed the Line back on the table.

“Thank you,” the old witch said. She picked up the rod of dark stone.
“Do you know how I am to use it to call the Wizengamot to order,
or—never mind, I shall just try striking the podium. That seems obvious
enough. To the rest of the country, of course, I am the Chief Warlock so
far as anyone knows except us four.”

Harry hesitated. Then he imagined the owls he would receive if anyone
knew he was allowed to second-guess the Chief Warlock, and what that
would do to Amelia’s negotiating power. “Fine.”

Amelia tucked the rod back into her robes. “I will not say it was a
pleasure doing business with you, Boy-Who-Lived, but it could have been
much worse. Thank you kindly for that.”

Harry was already feeling worried about the exact balance of power here,
from the way Madam Bones was acting. The others had, quite logically,
deduced that it had been mostly David Monroe who’d planned the way to
defeating Voldemort, which meant they were still underestimating him. It
might take a crisis of some type, with Harry figuring it out
successfully for once instead of screwing up, before Amelia Bones
started to respect his authority. Or believe in it at all, actually…
“So,” Harry said. “Any weirdness for me that you would have brought to
Dumbledore while he was around?”

Amelia looked thoughtful. “Since you ask… I can think of three things,
indeed. First, we don’t have the faintest notion what ritual was used to
sacrifice the Death Eaters and resurrect You-Know-Who. It corresponds to
no known legend, and the magic traces from the ritual have been
eradicated. So far as my Aurors can tell, everyone’s heads fell off
their necks due to natural causes. Except for Walden Macnair, who was
killed by magical fire after firing a Killing Curse from his wand. A
very mysterious ritual indeed.” She was giving Harry Potter a rather
precise look.

Harry considered this, choosing his words carefully. Voldemort had said
he’d put up wards, so Harry had been confident of not being observed by
Time-Turned Aurors, but still… “I think this is a matter you don’t need
to investigate too hard, Madam Bones.”

The old witch grinned slightly. “We can’t be seen to go easy on the
investigation of so many Noble deaths, Harry Potter. When I heard retold
your particular account of David’s last stand, I made certain to send
investigators whom I considered reliable in the usual quality of their
work. Auror Nobbs and Auror Colon, in fact, who are widely respected
outside my Department. I found their report to be quite fascinating
reading.” Amelia paused. “There’s a possibility that Augustus Rookwood
left a ghost—”

“Exorcise it before anyone talks to it,” Harry said, conscious of the
sudden hammering of his heart.

“Yes, sir,” the old witch said dryly. “I shall disrupt the soul’s
anchoring a little, and none shall be the wiser when it fails to
materialize. The second matter is that there was a still-living human
arm found among the Dark Lord’s things—”

“Bellatrix,” Harry said. His mind had leaped back, made the connection
that ongoing trauma had blurred. “I think that’s Bellatrix Black’s arm.”
Lesath Lestrange hadn’t been named as someone who’d lost a parent. “Oh,
bloody hell. She’s still out there, isn’t she. Can you use her arm to
track her down somehow?”

Amelia Bones had acquired a sour look. “I see. As I was saying, a
still-living human arm was found among the Dark Lord’s things, but it
proved to be easily incinerated.”

“What idiot—” Harry stopped himself. “No, not an idiot. Because
immediately destroying Dark objects is Department policy. Because of
past experiences with rings that really should’ve been dropped into
volcanos immediately. Right?”

Moody and Amelia nodded in unison. “Good guess, son,” said Moody.

It might seem literarily inevitable that Harry’s past stupidity was
going to come back and haunt him in some horrible fashion later, but
that was no reason not to try subverting the plot. “I expect you’ve
thought of this already,” Harry said, “but the obvious next step is to
put out your equivalent of an international bulletin for a thin witch
missing her left arm. Oh, and add twenty-five thousand Galleons pledged
from me—Headmistress, it’s fine, please trust me on this—to whatever
reward is being offered.”

“Well said.” The old witch leaned forward slightly. “The third and final
matter… there was one truly puzzling element to last night’s events, and
I am curious to see what you make of it, Harry Potter. Found among the
corpses was the head and the body of Sirius Black.”

“What?” yelled Moody, starting half from his chair. “I thought he was in
Azkaban!”

“So he is,” said Madam Bones. “We checked that at once. The Azkaban
guards reported that Sirius Black was still in his cell. Black’s head
and body have been transported to the St. Mungo’s morgue, and show the
same cause of death as the other Death Eaters, that is to say, his head
spontaneously fell off. I am also told that Sirius Black is, as of this
morning, sitting in the corner of his cell rocking back and forth with
his head between his hands. No other duplicate Death Eaters have been
found. Yet.”

There was a pause filled with ticking and whooping things, as people
considered this.

“Ah…” said Minerva. “That’s not possible even by You-Know-Who’s
standards of possibility. Is it?”

“I would have thought so too when I was your age, dear,” said Amelia.
“It is the sixth strangest thing I have ever seen.”

“You see, son?” said Moody. “This sort of thing is why nobody, even me,
can ever be paranoid enough.” The scarred man tilted his head, looking
thoughtful, as his bright-blue eye kept ever-roving. “Twin brother,
concealed from the rest of the world? Walpurga Black gave birth to
twins, couldn’t bear to kill one, knew old Pollux would demand it… nah,
ain’t buyin’ it.”

“Any ideas, Mr Potter?” said Amelia Bones. “Or is this another matter
into which my Department should not inquire too closely?”

Harry closed his eyes and thought.

Sirius Black had hunted down Peter Pettigrew, instead of fleeing the
country as common sense would have suggested.

Black had been found in the middle of the street, surrounded by bodies,
laughing.

Nothing left of Pettigrew except one finger.

Pettigrew had been a spy for the Light, not a double agent but somebody
who sneaked around and found things out.

One of the conspiracy theories about Pettigrew had been that he was an
Animagus, since he’d been good at ferreting out secrets even in his
Hogwarts years.

Dementors sapped all the magic in their vicinity.

Professor Quirrell had said something about a particular type of magic
that rearranged flesh like a Muggle smith reshaping metal with hammer
and tongs…

Harry opened his eyes again.

“Was Peter Pettigrew a secret Metamorphmagus?”

Amelia Bones’s face changed. She made a single croaking noise and fell
backward within her chair.

“Yes, in fact…” Minerva said slowly. “Why?”

“Sirius Black Confunded Peter Pettigrew,” Harry’s voice explained
patiently, “to force him to change shape and pretend to be Black. By the
time the Confundus wore off, Peter was in Azkaban and couldn’t change
back. The Aurors are used to people in Azkaban saying absolutely
anything to get out, so they didn’t listen while Peter Pettigrew was
screaming about it over and over again until his voice wore out.”

Even Mad-Eye Moody’s face showed the horror, then.

“In retrospect,” said Harry’s voice, which seemed to be operating
entirely on automatic, “you should have been suspicious when you managed
to get that one Death Eater hauled off to Azkaban without a trial.”

“We thought Malfoy was distracted,” whispered the old witch. “That he
was only trying to save himself. There were other Death Eaters we
managed to get then, like Bellatrix—”

Harry nodded, feeling like his neck and head were moving on puppet
strings. “The Dark Lord’s most fanatic and devoted servant, a natural
nucleus of opposition for anyone who contested Lucius’s control of the
Death Eaters. You thought Lucius was distracted.”

“Get him out of there,” said Minerva McGonagall. Her voice rose to a
scream. “Get him out of there!”

Amelia Bones shoved herself up from the chair, whirled on the Floo—

“Stop.”

Everyone looked at Harry with astonishment, none more than Minerva
McGonagall.

Something else seemed to have taken over Harry’s voice. “There’s four
things we still need to discuss. An innocent man has been in Azkaban for
ten years, eight months, and fourteen days. He can stay there a few
minutes longer. That’s how urgent those four things are.”

“You—” whispered Amelia Bones. “You should not try to be this person, at
your age—”

“First. I think I should look at the complete police records on every
other Death Eater that went to Azkaban while Lucius was distracted. Can
you compile that by tonight?”

“Within the hour,” said Amelia Bones. She looked grey.

Harry nodded. “Second. Azkaban is over. You’ll need to start
preparations now to move the prisoners to Nurmengard or other secure
non-Dementor prisons, and to provide treatment for their Dementor
exposure.”

“I,” said Amelia. The old witch seemed bent, diminished. “I… do not
think, that even with this… scandal, that the remainder of the
Wizengamot will bend… and the Dementors must be fed, not so much as we
have fed them, but they must be given some victims, or they will roam
the world, prey on innocents…”

“It doesn’t matter what the Wizengamot says,” Harry said. “Because—”
Harry’s voice choked. “Because—” Harry took a deep breath, steadied
himself. He thought he could see the shape now of the immediate future,
could see it stretching out before him like a golden pathway lit with
sunlight. Was this also written, in the book of Time that I must not
see? “Because if I’m right about what comes next, then sometime very
soon, Hermione Granger, the Girl-Who-Revived, is going to go to Azkaban
and destroy all the Dementors there.”

“Impossible!” spat Mad-Eye Moody.

“Merlin,” whispered Amelia Bones. “Oh, dear Merlin. That’s what happened
to the Dementor that Dumbledore ‘lost’. That’s why they’re afraid of
you—and now her as well?” Her voice trembled. “What is this, what is all
this?”

If Hermione believes that Death can be defeated—

Whether or not she could’ve believed that before, she’ll believe it now.

“An authorized portkey to Azkaban would be appreciated—” Harry’s voice
broke again. Tears were streaming down his cheeks.

She can’t die. I have her horcrux.

But Hermione doesn’t need to know about that. Not for one more week.

If she’s willing to risk her own life to end this—

“Though I think, she might make, her own way there…”

“Harry?” said Headmistress McGonagall.

Harry was crying now, huge ragged breaths bursting from him. But he
didn’t stop talking. Somewhere out there Peter Pettigrew was waiting
while Harry cried.

Somewhere out there, everyone was waiting while he cried.

“Third. Somewhere just inside the wards of Hogwarts. In a highly
defensible position. But where emergency cases can be portkeyed in from
just outside the wards. There’s going to be a high-security
h-h-hospital. With very powerful guards, that have taken Unbreakable
Vows, I don’t, I don’t care how much gold it takes to pay for the Vows,
it genuinely does not matter any more. And, and Alastor Moody is going
to design the security architecture, and go completely overboard on
paranoia without being constrained by a budget or sanity or common
sense, only it has to open soon.” Couldn’t stop talking to cry.

“Harry,” said the Headmistress, “both of them think you’ve gone mad,
they don’t know you well enough to know better. You need to slow down
and explain.”

Instead Harry reached into his pouch and signed letters with his
fingers, and lifted out, his fingers straining, a five-kilo chunk of
gold larger than his fist, from when he’d been experimenting this
morning. It made a heavy thud as it landed on the table.

Moody reached over and tapped it with his wand, and then his throat made
an incomprehensible sound.

“That’s your starting budget, Alastor, if you need money right away.
Nicholas Flamel didn’t make the Philosopher’s Stone, he stole it,
Dumbledore didn’t know the secret history but Monroe did. Once you know
how it works, the Stone can do one complete restoration to full health
and youth every two hundred and thirty-four seconds. Three hundred sixty
people per day. One hundred and thirty-four thousand healings per year.
That should be enough to stop, all the wizards everywhere, and all the
goblins and house elves and whoever, from dying. Of old age, or anything
else.” Harry was wiping away tears, over and over. “Flamel had more
blood on his hands than a hundred Voldemorts, for all the people he
could’ve saved and didn’t. The whole time, Moody, the Philosopher’s
Stone could’ve healed all your scars and given you back your leg, any
time Flamel felt like it. Dumbledore didn’t know. I’m sure he didn’t
know.” Harry smiled shakily. “I can’t imagine you as a teenage witch,
Madam Bones, but I bet it looks good on you. That’ll give you more
energy for trying to keep the Wizengamot from messing with me, because
if they get the idea that the Stone is something they can mess with in
any way, tax, regulate, I don’t care, Hogwarts is going to secede from
Britain and become its own country. Headmistress, Hogwarts is no longer
dependent on the Ministry for gold, or for that matter food. You may
reform the educational curriculum at will. I’m thinking we may want to
add some more advanced courses soon, especially in Muggle studies.”

“Slow down!” said Minerva McGonagall.

“Fourth—” Harry said, and then stopped.

Fourth. Begin preparations for an orderly take-down of the Statute of
Secrecy and to provide magical healing on a mass scale to the Muggle
world. Those who oppose this agenda in any way may be denied services by
the Stone…

Harry’s lips couldn’t move. Not wouldn’t, couldn’t.

With six billion Muggles thinking creatively about how to use magic…

Transfiguring antimatter was just one idea. It wasn’t even the most
destructive idea. There were also black holes and negatively charged
strangelets. And if black holes couldn’t be Transfigured because they
didn’t already exist as magic defined that to within some spatial
radius, there was just Transfiguring lots and lots of nuclear weapons
and Black Death plague that could reproduce before the Transfiguration
wore off and Harry hadn’t even thought about the problem for five
minutes but it didn’t matter because he’d already thought of enough.
Someone would think of it, someone would talk, someone would try it. The
probability was as close to certainty as made no difference.

What happened if you Transfigured a cubic millimetre of up quarks, just
the up quarks without any down quarks to bind them? Harry didn’t even
know, and up quarks were certainly a kind of substance that already
existed. All it might take was one single Muggle-born who knew the names
of the six quarks deciding to try it. That could be the clock ticking
down to the prophesied end of the world.

Harry would have tried to deny the thought, rationalize it away.

He couldn’t do that either.

It wasn’t a thing-Harry-Potter-would-do.

Like water flowing downhill, Harry Potter would take no chances when it
came to not destroying the world.

“Fourth?” said Amelia Bones, who was looking like she’d been hit
repeatedly in the face with a planet. “What comes fourth?”

“Never mind,” said Harry. His voice did not break. He did not fold over
sobbing. There were still lives he could save and those took precedence.
“Never mind. Chief Warlock Bones, I’ve given the regency of the
Wizengamot into your hands. Please use that position to announce
internationally that the Stone’s healing power will soon be made
available to all, and that meanwhile, all dying patients are to be kept
alive at any cost, no matter what magic is required to do it. That
announcement is your absolute priority. When you have done that you may
rescue Peter Pettigrew and tell your old Department to begin
preparations for shutting down Azkaban. Then please have someone prepare
a full list of imprisoned Death Eaters and what was said at their trials
and whether Lucius seemed strangely uninterested in defending them.
Thank you. That’s all.”

Amelia Bones turned without another word, and dashed into the Floo like
it was her own self that was on fire.

“And someone,” Harry said, his voice breaking again now that it was all
set in motion, and crying wasn’t costing time, though the vast majority
of total lives at stake had turned out not to be savable just yet,
“someone has to, someone tell Remus Lupin.”

121. Something to Protect: Draco Malfoy

E. Y.: Farewell, Terry Pratchett, 1948–2015. Your characters were an
inspiration to me, and now I can see how much they taught me about Level
1 and Level 3 Character Intelligence: that self-awareness often
manifests as humour or as genre-savviness; that an inner spark of
optimization can shine just as brightly through characters who are told
(but not shown) to be lowly and stupid; that intelligent characters can
go along with a spark of goodness and light running through a story,
rather than cynicism. I wish I could have met you, and spoken with you
about your methods. You were loved by so many, and surely at least one
person who would tear apart the foundations of reality to bring you
back; but your brain is dead and warm now, and so your story ends.

  Even if the stars should die in heaven,
  Our sins can never be undone.
  No single death will be forgiven
  When fades at last the last lit sun.
  Then in the cold and silent black
  As light and matter end,
  We’ll have ourselves a last look back
  And toast an absent friend.

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE boy sat in an office near to where the once-Deputy Headmistress had
held court. His tears had run dry hours ago. Now there was only the
waiting to see what would become of him, the orphan ward of Hogwarts,
whose life and happiness lay in the hands of his family’s enemies. The
boy had been called to this room, and he had come because there was
nothing else to do and nowhere else to go. Vincent and Gregory had left
his side, called back by their mothers for their fathers’ hurried
funerals. Perhaps the boy should have gone with them, but he could not
bring himself to do so. He would not have been able to act the part of a
Malfoy. The feeling of emptiness that filled him up was so profound that
it left no room even for pretended courtesy.

Everyone was dead.

His father was dead, and his godfather Mr Macnair, and his fallback
godfather Mr Avery. Even Sirius Black, his mother’s cousin, had somehow
managed to die, and the last remnant of House Black was no friend to any
Malfoy.

Everyone was dead.

There came a knock upon the office’s door; and then, when the boy made
no reply, the door opened, revealing—

“Go away,” Draco Malfoy said to the Boy-Who-Lived. He couldn’t muster
any force in the words.

“I will soon,” Harry Potter said, as he stepped into the room. “But
there’s a decision to be made, and only you can make it.”

Draco turned his head toward the wall, because just looking at Harry
Potter took more energy than he had left in him.

“You have to decide,” Harry said, “what happens to Draco Malfoy after
this. I don’t mean that in any ominous way. No matter what, you’re still
going to grow up to be the rich heir of a Noble and Most Ancient House.
The thing is,” Harry’s voice was wavering now, “the thing is, there’s a
horrible truth you don’t know, and I keep thinking that if you knew,
you’d tell me not to be your friend any more. And I don’t want to stop
being your friend. But to just—never tell you—and always maintain that
lie so I can go on being your friend—I can’t do that. It’s also wrong. I
don’t… don’t want this any more, I don’t want to be manipulating you.
I’ve hurt you too much already.”

Then stop trying to be my friend, you’re no good at it anyway. The words
rose up into Draco’s consciousness, and were rejected from his lips. He
felt like he’d mostly lost Harry already, from the games Harry had
played with their friendship, the lies and manipulations; and yet the
thought of going back to Slytherin alone, maybe without Vincent and
Gregory if their mothers terminated the arrangement… Draco didn’t want
to do that, he didn’t want to go back to Slytherin and live out his life
among only people who’d agreed to be Sorted into Slytherin House. Draco
was just with it enough to remember how many of his real friends were
also friends with Harry, that Padma was a Ravenclaw and even Theodore
was a Chaotic Lieutenant. All that remained of Malfoy House was a
tradition, now; and that tradition said it wasn’t clever to tell the
war’s victor to go away and stop trying to be friends with you.

“All right,” Draco said emptily. “Tell me.”

“That’s what I’m going to do,” Harry said. “And then the Headmistress
will come in after I leave, and seal away your last half-hour of memory.
But before then, knowing the whole truth, you’ll get to decide whether
you still want to be involved with me.” Harry’s voice was shaking. “Um.
According to the records I was reading through before I came here, the
story really began in 1926 with the birth of a half-blood wizard named
Tom Morfin Riddle. His mother died in childbirth, and he grew up in a
Muggle orphanage, until his Hogwarts letter was brought to him by
Professor Dumbledore…”

The Boy-Who-Lived continued speaking, words that slammed into what was
left of Draco’s mind like falling houses.

The Dark Lord had been a half-blood. He’d never believed in blood purity
for a fraction of a second.

Tom Riddle had come up with the idea of Lord Voldemort as a bad joke.

The Death Eaters had been meant to lose to David Monroe, so Monroe could
take over.

After giving up on that, Tom Riddle had gone on playing Voldemort
instead of actually trying to win, because he’d liked bossing the Death
Eaters around.

Voldemort used me to try to frame Father for my attempted murder, then
used me again to go after the Philosopher’s Stone. Draco couldn’t
remember that part, but he’d already been told that he’d been used as a
pawn alongside Professor Sprout, and that no charges would be filed.

And then the last horror.

“You—” whispered Draco Malfoy. “You—”

“I’m the one who killed your father and all the other Death Eaters last
night. They’d been told to open fire on me the moment I did anything, so
I had to kill them in order to have a chance at dealing with Voldemort,
who was a danger to the entire world.” Harry Potter’s voice was
strained. “I didn’t think about you and Theodore and Vincent and
Gregory, but if I had, I’d have done it anyway. My mind managed not to
realise until afterwards that Mr White was Lucius, but if I’d realised,
I still wouldn’t have risked leaving him alive, in case he knew wandless
magic. The thought occurred to me long before that it would be pretty
convenient, in terms of the political landscape, for all the Death
Eaters to suddenly die. I always thought that the Death Eaters were
horrible people, much more strongly than I ever let on to you, since the
first day we met. But if your father hadn’t been there, and I’d had a
button that could kill him remotely, I wouldn’t have pressed the button
just for political reasons. The way I feel about what I’ve done, and
whether there’s remorse… well, there’s a part of me that’s screaming in
generic horror about having killed anyone. And another part that says
that from a moral standpoint, the Death Eaters signed away their lives
on the day they signed up with Voldemort. They pointed their wands at me
first, blah blah and so on. But right now I just feel sick about what
I’ve done to you. Again. I feel like,” Harry Potter’s voice wobbled a
bit, “everything I do only hurts you, for all my good intentions, that
you’ve only ever lost things from being around me, so if you tell me to
stay away entirely from Draco Malfoy after this, then I will. And if you
want me to try to be your friend for real this time, without ever trying
to manipulate you again, without ever using you again or risking hurting
you again, then I will, I swear I will.”

The next Lord Malfoy was crying, openly in front of his enemy, decorum
and composure abandoned, because he didn’t have anyone left for whose
sake he could keep it.

A lie.

A lie.

Everything had been a lie, it was all lies piled on top of lies, lies
lies lies—

“You should die,” Draco forced out. “You should die for having killed
Father.” The words only filled him with more emptiness, but they had to
be said.

Harry Potter just shook his head. “And if that’s not an option?”

“You should hurt.”

Harry only shook his head again.

The Boy-Who-Lived pressed the Lord Malfoy for his decision.

The Lord Malfoy refused to give it. He couldn’t say it, couldn’t bring
himself to say it, either way. He didn’t want the war’s victor and their
mutual friends to abandon him, and he wasn’t going to give Harry the
absolution he wanted, either.

So Draco Malfoy refused to answer, and then the time of that self’s
memory ended.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The boy sat in an office near to where the once-Deputy Headmistress had
held court. His tears had run dry hours ago. Now there was only the
waiting to see what would become of him, the orphan ward of Hogwarts,
whose life and happiness lay in the hands of his family’s enemies. The
boy had been called to this room, and he had come, because there was
nothing else to do, and nowhere else to go. Vincent and Gregory had left
his side, called back by their mothers for their fathers’ hurried
funerals. Perhaps the boy should have gone with them, but he could not
bring himself to do so. He would not have been able to act the part of a
Malfoy. The feeling of emptiness that filled him up was so profound that
it left no room even for lies.

Everyone was dead.

Everyone was dead, and it had all been futile from the beginning.

There was a knock upon the office door, and then, after a polite pause,
it opened to reveal Headmistress McGonagall, dressed much as she had
dressed when she was a Professor. “Mr Malfoy?” his family’s victorious
enemy said. “Please come with me.”

Listlessly, Draco rose up, and followed her out of the office. Seeing
Harry Potter waiting beside her gave him some pause, but then his mind
simply shut it out.

“Here’s the last thing,” Harry Potter said. “I found it in a folded
parchment whose outside said that it was the last weapon to be used
against House Malfoy, telling me not to read any further until the whole
war hung in the balance. I didn’t want to tell it to you before because
I thought it might prejudice your decision unfairly. If you were a good
person who never killed or lied, but you had to do one or the other,
which would be worse?”

Draco ignored him and continued in Headmistress McGonagall’s company,
leaving Harry behind looking sadly after.

They came to the Headmistress’s old office, where she lit her Floo-fire
with a wave of her wand, said to the green flame “Gringotts travel
office” and stepped through after a firm glance in his direction.

For lack of any other option, Draco Malfoy followed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

She lay in bed, feeling more listless than usual that morning, awoken
too early with the Sun just beginning to rise—though the direct sunlight
was blocked by the skyscrapers that shadowed her house. A faint tinge of
hangover gnawed at her temples, dried her mouth; she tried to be sparing
with the drink (though she didn’t know why she bothered) but yesterday
she’d felt… even more depressed than usual, like she’d lost something,
somehow. Not for the first time, not for the hundredth time, she thought
about moving—to Adelaide, to Perth, maybe to Perth Amboy if that was
what it took. She always had the sense there was somewhere else she
ought to be; but while she could live a comfortable life on the payments
the insurance company made to her, she couldn’t afford luxuries. She
couldn’t pay to go gallivanting around the world looking for somewhere
that fit her unsatisfied sense of belonging. She’d watched the TV for
long enough, she’d rented enough travelogues, to know that nowhere the
VCR showed her gave her any more sense of rightness than Sydney.

She’d felt frozen, stopped in time, ever since the traffic accident that
had stolen her memories—not just of a dead family that meant nothing to
her now, but memories like how a stove worked. She suspected, no, she
knew, that whatever her heart was waiting for, whatever key needed to
turn inside her to make her life begin moving again, it was one more
thing she’d lost to that runaway minivan. She thought about that almost
every morning, trying to guess what she was missing, missing, missing
from her life and mind.

Somebody rang her doorbell.

She groaned, turning her head far enough to look at the LED alarm clock
at the side of her bed. 6:31, it said, with the AM dot lit. Seriously?
Well, that idiot could wait while she staggered out of bed at her own
pace, then.

Stagger out of bed she did, ignoring the doorbell as it rang again, as
she ducked into the bathroom and dressed herself.

She clambered down the stairs, ignoring the ever-nagging sense that
someone else ought to be answering her door for her. “Who’s there?” she
called to the closed door; the door had a peep-hole, but it was fogged
over.

“Are you Nancy Manson?” came a woman’s voice, speaking in a precise
Scottish accent.

“Yes,” she said cautiously.

“Eunoe,” spoke the Scottish voice, and Nancy leapt back in shock as a
flash of light came from the door and hit her and…

Nancy swayed, putting a hand to her forehead. Flashes of light just
going through doors and hitting people, that was… that was… that wasn’t
particularly surprising…

“Would you please open the door?” said the Scottish woman’s voice. “The
war is over and your memories should be returning shortly. There’s
someone here who ought to see you.”

My memories—

Nancy’s head was already feeling clogged, like she was about to start
hacking something out of her brain, but she managed to reach out and
yank the door open.

There in front of her was a woman dressed as a (perfectly normal) witch,
from black robes to tall pointed hat—

—and standing beside her a boy, with short white-blonde hair and wearing
(perfectly normal) dark robes trimmed in green, staring at her with his
jaw dropped and eyes wide and beginning to fill with tears.

Green-trimmed robes and white-blonde hair…

Something warm stirred in her memory. She felt her heart rising into her
throat as she realized that the thing that she’d been looking for these
past ten years might be right in front of her this very instant.
Somewhere deep inside her, ice was cracking around her heart, the piece
of her that had been stopped for so long preparing to move once more.

The boy was staring at her, his mouth working soundlessly.

A mysterious name came into her mind, rose to her lips.

“Lucius?” she whispered.

122. Something to Protect: Severus Snape

A sombre mood pervaded the Headmistress’s office. Minerva had returned
after dropping off Draco and Narcissa/Nancy at St. Mungo’s, where the
Lady Malfoy was being examined to see if a decade living as a Muggle had
done any damage to her health; and Harry had come up to the
Headmistress’s office again and then… not been able to think of
priorities. There was so much to do, so many things, that even
Headmistress McGonagall didn’t seem to know where to start, and
certainly not Harry. Right now Minerva was repeatedly writing words on
parchment and then erasing them with a hand-wave, and Harry had closed
his eyes for clarity. Was there any next first thing that needed to
happen…

There came a knock upon the great oaken door that had been Dumbledore’s,
and the Headmistress opened it with a word.

The man who entered the Headmistress’s office appeared worn, he had
discarded his wheelchair but still walked with a limp. He wore black
robes that were simple, yet clean and unstained. Over his left shoulder
was slung a knapsack, of sturdy grey leather set with silver filigree
that held four green pearl-like stones. It looked like a thoroughly
enchanted knapsack, one that could contain the contents of a Muggle
house.

One look at him, and Harry knew.

Headmistress McGonagall sat frozen behind her new desk.

Severus Snape inclined his head to her.

“What is the meaning of this?” said the Headmistress, sounding…
heart-sick, as if she’d known, at a glance, just like Harry had.

“I resign my position as the Potions Master of Hogwarts,” the man said
simply. “I will not stay to draw my last month’s salary. If there are
students who have been particularly harmed by me, you may use the money
for their benefit.”

He knows. The thought came to Harry, and he couldn’t have said in words
just what the Potions Master now knew; except that it was clear that
Severus knew it.

“Severus…” Headmistress McGonagall began. Her voice sounded hollow.
“Professor Severus Snape, you may not realize how difficult it is to
find Potions Masters who can safely teach Muggle-borns, or Professors
sharp enough to keep Slytherin House in any semblance of order…”

Again the man inclined his head. “I think it need not be said to you,
Headmistress, but I recommend in the strongest possible terms that the
next Head of Slytherin be nothing like me.”

“Severus, you only did as Albus told you to do! You could stay on and
act differently!”

“Headmistress,” Harry said. His own voice seemed also hollow, and Harry
wondered at it, for he hadn’t known Severus Snape that well. “If he
wants to go, I think you should let him go.”

Dumbledore was using him. Maybe not exactly the way Professor Quirrell
thought, maybe it was prophecy rather than sabotaging Slytherin, but
Dumbledore was still using him. There were things that could have been
said long ago to Severus, to free him. It’s clear why Dumbledore didn’t
risk that, but still, Severus wasn’t being used kindly. Even his
blindness and grief were being used, the way he didn’t grasp the
consequences of his actions as Potions Master…

“It is well to find you here, Mr Potter,” Severus said. “There is
unfinished business between us.”

Harry didn’t know what to say, so he just nodded.

Severus seemed to be having some difficulty speaking, as he stood before
the two of them with the grey knapsack on his shoulder. Finally he
seemed to find the words he’d come to speak. “Your mother. Lily. She
was—”

“I know,” Harry said, through the thickness of his throat. “You don’t
have to say it.”

“Lily was a fine upstanding witch, Mr Potter. I would not have you think
otherwise from any words I said to you.”

“Severus?” said Minerva McGonagall, looking as shocked as if she’d been
bitten by her own shoes.

The former Potions Master kept his eyes on Harry. “More than one bar lay
between myself and Lily, most notably my ill-advised attempts to curry
favour with the purebloods of my house. If I made it sound like one
mistake upon a muddy field ended it all, if I pretended that she had no
reason but shallowness not to love me, I hope your books have also told
you why fools may say such things.”

“They did,” Harry said. He was looking at the fine grey knapsack on
Severus Snape’s left shoulder, unable to meet the Potions Master’s eyes.
“They did.”

“However,” the former Potions Master continued, “I’m afraid I have
nothing more to say about your father than what I’ve already told you.”

“Severus!”

The former Potions Master seemed to have eyes only for Harry. “The Dark
Mark upon my arm is not dead, nor is the prophecy fulfilled by that
story you recounted before the crowd. How did you destroy all but a
remnant of the Dark Lord?”

Harry hesitated. “I Obliviated most of his memories and… sealed him, I
guess is how wizards say it. Even if the seal breaks, he won’t come back
as himself.”

Severus frowned briefly and then shrugged. “I suppose that is
acceptable.”

“Professor Snape,” Harry said, because this too was now his
responsibility, “the Order of the Phœnix owes you for services rendered.
I’m in an excellent position to repay it, both financially and
magically. Just in case you want to start your next life in a position
of wealth, or with better hair, or something.”

“Strange words to say to such as me,” the former Potions Master said in
a soft drawl. “I went to the Dark Lord intending to sell him the
prophecy in exchange for Lily’s love becoming mine, by whatever darkness
was required to achieve it. That is hardly something to be forgiven
lightly. And then, in the years after when I was a Potions Master… that
you experienced yourself. Do you think my service to the Order of the
Phœnix has repaid all my sins?”

“People are always broken,” Harry said, though the words stuck in his
throat. “They always make mistakes. At least you tried to repay them.”

“Perhaps,” said the former Potions Master. “My final duty was to fail in
guarding the Stone, to be struck down. This I have done, and I survived
it, which I never expected to do.” Severus was leaning against the door
through which he’d entered, taking his weight off his left leg. “I would
not have thought to ask for your forgiveness, but since you offer it so
freely, I will accept with thanks. From this day on I wish to take less
unkindly ways, and I think that is best done by starting over.”

Tears glistened on Minerva McGonagall’s nose and cheeks, when she spoke
her voice was without hope. “Surely you could start over inside
Hogwarts.”

Severus shook his head. “Too many students would remember me as the evil
Potions Master. No, Minerva. I will go somewhere new, and take a new
name, and find someone new to love.”

“Severus Snape,” Harry said, because it was his responsibility to say
it, “has all your will been done?”

“Lily’s killer is vanquished,” the man said. “I am content.”

The Headmistress lowered her head. “Be well, Severus,” she whispered.

“I do have one last piece of advice,” Harry said. “If you want it.”

“What is it?” said Severus Snape.

“Ruminating about the past can contribute to depression. You have my
blanket permission to just never think about your past, ever. You
shouldn’t think that it’s your responsibility to Lily to bear your guilt
for her, or anything like that. Just keep your mind on your future and
whatever new people you meet.”

“I shall take your wisdom into consideration,” Severus said neutrally.

“Also, try a different brand of hair shampoo.”

A wry grin crossed Severus’s face, and Harry thought it might have been,
for the first time, that man’s true smile. “Drop dead, Potter.”

Harry laughed.

Severus laughed.

Minerva was sobbing.

Without saying anything else, the free man took a pinch of Floo powder,
and cast it into the office’s fireplace, and strode into the green flame
whispering something that nobody caught; and that was the last that
anyone ever heard of Severus Snape.

123. Something to Protect: Hermione Granger

AND it was evening and it was morning, the last day. June 15th, 1992.

The beginning light of morning, the pre-dawn before sunrise, was barely
brightening the sky. To the east of Hogwarts, where the Sun would rise,
that faintest tinge of grey made barely visible the hilly horizon beyond
the Quidditch stands.

The stone terrace-platform where Harry now sat would be high enough to
see the dawn beyond the hills below; he’d asked for that, when he was
describing his new office.

Harry was currently sitting cross-legged on a cushion, chilly
pre-morning breezes stirring over his exposed hands and face. He’d
ordered the house elves to bring up the hand-glittered throne from his
previous office as General Chaos… and then he’d told the elves to put it
back, once it had occurred to Harry to start worrying about where his
taste in decorations had come from and whether Voldemort had once
possessed a similar throne. Which, itself, wasn’t a knockdown
argument—it wasn’t like sitting on a glittery throne to survey the lands
below Hogwarts was unethical in any way Harry’s moral philosophy could
make out—but Harry had decided that he needed to take time and think it
through. Meanwhile, simple cushions would do well enough.

In the room below, connected to the rooftop by a simple wooden ladder,
was Harry’s new office inside Hogwarts. A wide room, surrounded by
full-wall windows on four sides for sunlight; currently bare of
furnishings but for four chairs and a desk. Harry had told Headmistress
McGonagall what he was looking for, and Headmistress McGonagall had put
on the Sorting Hat and then told Harry the series of twists and turns
that would take him where he wanted to be. High enough in Hogwarts that
the castle shouldn’t have been that tall, high enough in Hogwarts that
nobody looking from the outside would see a piece of castle
corresponding to where Harry now sat. It seemed like an elementary
precaution against snipers that there was no reason not to take.

Though, on the flip side, Harry had no idea where he currently was in
any real sense. If his office couldn’t be seen from the lands below,
then how was Harry seeing the lands, how were photons making it from the
landscape to him? On the western side of the horizon, stars still
glittered, clear in the pre-dawn air. Were those photons the actual
photons that had been emitted by huge plasma furnaces in the
unimaginable distance? Or did Harry now sit within some dreaming vision
of the Hogwarts castle? Or was it all, without any further explanation,
‘just magic’? He needed to get electricity to work better around magic
so he could experiment with shining lasers downward and upward.

And yes, Harry had his own office on Hogwarts now. He didn’t have any
official title yet, but the Boy-Who-Lived was now a true fixture of the
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the soon-to-be-home of the
Philosopher’s Stone and the world’s only wizarding institution of
genuinely higher education. It wasn’t fully secured, but Professor
Vector had put up some preliminary Charms and Runes to screen the office
and its rooftop against eavesdropping.

Harry sat on his cushion, near the edge of his office’s roof, and gazed
down upon trees and lakes and flowering grass. Far below, carriages sat
motionlessly, not yet harnessed to skeletal horses. Small boats littered
the shore, prepared to ferry younger students across the lake when the
time came. The Hogwarts Express had arrived overnight, and now the
carriages and the huge old-fashioned engine awaited on the other side of
the southern lake. All was ready to take the students home after the
Leave-Taking Feast in the morning.

Harry stared across the lake, at the great old-fashioned locomotive he
wouldn’t be riding home this time. Again. There was a strange sadness
and worry to that thought, like Harry was already starting to miss out
on the bonding experiences with the other students his age—if you could
say that at all, when a significant part of Harry had been born in 1926.
It had felt to Harry, last night in the Ravenclaw common room, like the
gap between him and the other students had, yes, widened even further.
Though that might only have been from the questions Padma Patil and
Anthony Goldstein had excitedly asked each other about the
Girl-Who-Revived, the rapid-fire speculations shooting through the air
from Ravenclaw to Ravenclaw. Harry had known the answers, he’d known all
the answers, and he hadn’t been able to say them.

There was a part of Harry that was tempted to go on the Hogwarts Express
and then come back to Hogwarts by Floo. But when Harry imagined finding
five other students for his compartment, and then spending the next
eight hours keeping secrets from Neville or Padma or Dean or Tracey or
Lavender… it didn’t seem like an attractive prospect. Harry felt like he
ought to do it for reasons of Socializing with the Other Children, but
he did not want to do it. He could meet with everyone again at the start
of the next school year, when there would be other topics of which he
could speak more freely.

Harry stared south across the lake, at the huge old locomotive, and
thought about the rest of his life.

About the Future.

The prophecy Dumbledore’s letter had mentioned about him tearing apart
the stars in heaven… well, that sounded optimistic. That part had an
obvious interpretation to anyone who’d grown up with the right sort of
upbringing. It described a future where humanity had won, more or less.
It wasn’t what Harry usually thought about when he gazed at the stars,
but from a truly adult perspective, the stars were enormous heaps of
valuable raw materials that had unfortunately caught fire and needed to
be scattered and put out. If you were tapping the huge hydrogen-helium
reservoirs for raw materials, that meant your species had successfully
grown up.

Unless the prophecy had been referring to something else entirely.
Dumbledore might have been misinterpreting some seer’s words… but his
message to Harry had been phrased as if there’d been a prophecy about
Harry personally tearing apart stars, in the foreseeable future. Which
seemed potentially more worrisome, though by no means certain to be
true, or a bad thing if it was true…

Harry vented a sigh. He’d begun to understand, in the long hours before
sleep had taken him last night, just what Dumbledore’s last message
implied.

Looking back on the events of the 1991–1992 Hogwarts school year was
nothing short of bone-freezingly terrifying, now that Harry understood
what he was seeing.

It wasn’t just that Harry had kept the frequent company of his good
friend Lord Voldemort. It wasn’t even mostly that.

It was the vision of a narrow line of Time that Albus Dumbledore had
steered through fate’s narrow keyhole, a hair-thin strand of possibility
threaded through a needle’s eye.

The prophecies had instructed Dumbledore to have Tom Riddle’s
intelligence copied onto the brain of a wizarding infant who would then
grow up learning Muggle science. What did it say about the likely shape
of the Future, if that was the first or best strategy the seers could
find that didn’t lead to catastrophe?

Harry could look back now on the Unbreakable Vow that he’d made, and
guess that if not for that Vow, disaster might have already been set in
motion yesterday when Harry had wanted to tear down the International
Statute of Secrecy. Which in turn strongly suggested that the many
prophecies Dumbledore had read and whose instructions he’d followed, had
somehow ensured that Harry and Voldemort would collide in exactly the
right way to cause Voldemort to force Harry to make that Unbreakable
Vow. That the Unbreakable Vow had been part of Time’s narrow keyhole,
one of the improbable preconditions for allowing the Earth’s peoples to
survive.

A Vow whose sole purpose was to protect everyone from Harry’s current
stupidity.

It was like watching a videotape of an almost-traffic-accident that had
happened to you, where you remembered another car missing you by
centimetres, and the video showing that somebody had also thrown a
pebble in exactly the right way to cause an enormous lorry to miss that
near-collision, and if they hadn’t thrown that pebble then you and all
your family in the car and your entire planet would have been hit by the
lorry, which, in the metaphor, represented your own sheer obliviousness.

Harry had been warned, he’d known on some level or the Vow wouldn’t have
stopped him, and yet he’d still almost made the wrong choice and
destroyed the world. Harry could look back now and see that, yes, the
alternate Harry with no Vow would’ve had trouble accepting the reasoning
that said you couldn’t get magical healing to Muggles as fast as
possible. If the alternate Harry had acknowledged the danger at all, he
would have rationalized it, tried to figure out some clever way around
the problem and refused to accept taking a few years longer to do it,
and so the world would have ended. Even after all the warnings Harry had
received, it still wouldn’t have worked without the Unbreakable Vow.

One tiny strand of Time, being threaded through a needle’s eye.

Harry didn’t know how to handle this revelation. It wasn’t a sort of
situation that human beings had evolved emotions to handle. All Harry
could do was stare at how close he had come to disaster, might come
again to disaster if that Vow was fated to trigger more than once, and
think…

Think…

‘I don’t want that to happen again’ didn’t seem like the right thought.
He’d never wanted to destroy the world in the first place. Harry hadn’t
lacked for protective feelings about Earth’s sapient population, those
protective feelings had been the problem in a way. What Harry had lacked
was some element of clear vision, of being willing to consciously
acknowledge what he’d already known deep down.

And the whole thing with Harry having spent the last year cosying up to
the Defence Professor didn’t speak highly of his intellect either. It
seemed to point to the same problem, even. There were things Harry had
known or strongly suspected on some level, but never promoted to
conscious attention. And so he had failed and nearly died.

I need to raise the level of my game.

That was the thought Harry was looking for. He had to do better than
this, become a less stupid person than this.

I need to raise the level of my game, or fail.

Dumbledore had destroyed the recordings in the Hall of Prophecy and
arranged for no further recordings to be made. There’d apparently been a
prophecy that said Harry mustn’t look upon those prophecies. And the
obvious next thought, which might or might not be true, was that saving
the world was beyond the reach of prophetic instruction. That winning
would take plans that were too complex for seers’ messages, or that
Divination couldn’t see somehow. If there’d been some way for Dumbledore
to save the world himself, then prophecy would probably have told
Dumbledore how to do that. Instead the prophecies had told Dumbledore
how to create the preconditions for a particular sort of person
existing; a person, maybe, who could unravel a challenge more difficult
than prophecy could solve directly. That was why Harry had been placed
on his own, to think without prophetic guidance. If all Harry did was
follow mysterious orders from prophecies, then he wouldn’t mature into a
person who could perform that unknown task.

And right now, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres was still a walking
catastrophe who’d needed to be constrained by an Unbreakable Vow to
prevent him from immediately setting the Earth on an inevitable course
toward destruction when he’d already been warned against it. That had
happened literally yesterday, just one day after he’d helped Voldemort
almost take over the planet.

A certain line from Tolkien kept running through Harry’s mind, the part
where Frodo upon Mount Doom put on the ring, and Sauron suddenly
realized what a complete idiot he’d been. ‘And the magnitude of his own
folly was at last laid bare’, or however that had gone.

There was a huge gap between who Harry needed to become, and who he was
right now.

And Harry didn’t think that time, life experience, and puberty would
take care of that automatically, though they might help. Though if Harry
could grow into an adult that was to this self what a normal adult was
to a normal eleven-year-old, maybe that would be enough to steer through
Time’s narrow keyhole…

He had to grow up, somehow, and there was no traditional path laid out
before him for accomplishing that.

The thought came then to Harry of another work of fiction, more obscure
than Tolkien:

You can only arrive at mastery by practising the techniques you have
learned, facing challenges and apprehending them, using to the fullest
the tools you have been taught, until they shatter in your hands and you
are left in the midst of wreckage absolute… I cannot create masters. I
have never known how to create masters. Go, then, and fail… You have
been shaped into something that may emerge from the wreckage, determined
to remake your Art. I cannot create masters, but if you had not been
taught, your chances would be less. The higher road begins after the Art
seems to fail you; though the reality will be that it was you who failed
your Art.

It wasn’t that Harry had gone down the wrong path, it wasn’t that the
road to sanity lay somewhere outside of science. But reading science
papers hadn’t been enough. All the cognitive psychology papers about
known bugs in the human brain and so on had helped, but they hadn’t been
sufficient. He’d failed to reach what Harry was starting to realise was
a shockingly high standard of being so incredibly, unbelievably rational
that you actually started to get things right, as opposed to having a
handy language in which to describe afterwards everything you’d just
done wrong. Harry could look back now and apply ideas like ‘motivated
cognition’ to see where he’d gone astray over the last year. That
counted for something, when it came to being saner in the future. That
was better than having no idea what he’d done wrong. But that wasn’t yet
being the person who could pass through Time’s narrow keyhole, the adult
form whose possibility Dumbledore had been instructed by seers to
create.

I need to think faster, grow up faster… How alone am I, how alone will I
be? Am I making the same mistake I made during Professor Quirrell’s
first battle, when I didn’t realise Hermione had captains? The mistake I
made when I didn’t tell Dumbledore about the sense of doom, once I
realised Dumbledore probably wasn’t mad or evil?

It would help if Muggles had classes for this sort of thing, but they
didn’t. Maybe Harry could recruit Daniel Kahneman, fake his death,
rejuvenate him with the Stone, and put him in charge of inventing better
training methods…

Harry took the Elder Wand out of his robes, gazed again at the dark-grey
wood that Dumbledore had passed down to him. Harry had tried to think
faster this time, he’d tried to complete the pattern implied by the
Cloak of Invisibility and the Resurrection Stone. The Cloak of
Invisibility had possessed the legendary power of hiding the wearer, and
the hidden power of allowing the wearer to hide from Death itself in the
form of Dementors. The Resurrection Stone had the legendary power of
summoning an image of the dead, and then Voldemort had incorporated it
into his horcrux system to allow his spirit to move freely. The second
Deathly Hallow was a potential component of a system of true immortality
that Cadmus Peverell had never completed, maybe due to his having
ethics.

And then there was the third Deathly Hallow, the Elder Wand of Antioch
Peverell, that legend said passed from wizard to stronger wizard, and
made its holder invincible against ordinary attacks; that was the known
and overt characteristic…

The Elder Wand that had belonged to Dumbledore, who’d been trying to
prevent the Death of the world itself.

The purpose of the Elder Wand always going to the victor might be to
find the strongest living wizard and empower them still further, in case
there was any threat to their entire species; it could secretly be a
tool to defeat Death in its form as the destroyer of worlds.

But if there was some higher power locked within the Elder Wand, it had
not presented itself to Harry based on that guess. Harry had raised up
the Elder Wand and spoken to it, named himself a descendant of Peverell
who accepted his family’s quest; he’d promised the Elder Wand that he
would do his best to save the world from Death, and take up Dumbledore’s
duty. And the Elder Wand had answered no more strongly to his hand than
before, refusing his attempt to jump ahead in the story. Maybe Harry
needed to strike his first true blow against the Death of worlds before
the Elder Wand would acknowledge him; as the heir of Ignotus Peverell
had already defeated Death’s shadow, and the heir of Cadmus Peverell had
already survived the Death of his body, when their respective Deathly
Hallows had revealed their secrets.

At least Harry had managed to guess that, contrary to legend, the Elder
Wand didn’t contain a core of ‘Thestral hair’. Harry had seen Thestrals,
and they were skeletal horses with smooth skin and no visible mane on
their skull-like heads, nor tufts on their bony tails. But what core was
truly inside the Elder Wand, Harry hadn’t yet felt himself knowing; nor
had he been able to find, anywhere on the Elder Wand, the
circle-triangle-line of the Deathly Hallows that should have been
present.

“I don’t suppose,” Harry murmured to the Elder Wand, “you could just
tell me?”

There came back no answer from the globe-knobbed wand; only a sense of
glory and contained power, watching him skeptically.

Harry sighed, and put the most powerful wand in the world back into his
school robes. He’d get it eventually, and hopefully in time.

Maybe faster, if there was someone to help him do the research.

Harry was aware on some level—no, he needed to stop being aware of
things on some level and start just being aware of them—Harry was
explicitly and consciously aware that he was ruminating about the Future
mostly to distract himself from the imminent arrival of Hermione
Granger. Who would receive a clear bill of health from St. Mungo’s, when
she woke up very early this morning, and who would then Floo with
Professor Flitwick back to Hogwarts. Whereupon she’d tell Professor
Flitwick that she needed to speak with Harry Potter immediately. There’d
been a note from Harry to himself about that, when Harry had woken up
later this morning with the sun already risen in the Ravenclaw dorm.
He’d read the note, and then Time-Turned back to before the dawn hour
when Hermione Granger would arrive.

She won’t actually be angry with me.

…

Seriously. Hermione isn’t that kind of person. Maybe she was at the
start of the year but she’s too self-aware to fall for that one now.

…

What do you mean, ‘…’? If you have something to say, inner voice, just
say it! We’re trying to be more aware of our own thought processes,
remember?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sky had gone full blue-grey, dawn barely short of sunrise, by the
time that Harry heard the sound of footsteps coming from the ladder that
opened into his new office. Hastily Harry stood up and began to brush
off his robes; and then, realising what he was doing, stopped the
nervous motions. He’d just defeated Voldemort, damn it, he ought not to
be this nervous.

The young witch’s head and chestnut curls appeared in the opening and
peered around. Then she rose up higher, seemed almost to run up the
ladder steps, like she was walking along an ordinary pavement but
vertically; Harry could have blinked and missed it, how her shoe came
down on the top rung of the ladder and then she leaped lightly onto the
roof an instant later.

Hermione. Harry’s lips moved around the word, but made no sound.

There’d been something Harry had meant to say, but it had gone right out
of his mind.

Maybe a quarter of the minute passed, on the rooftop, before Hermione
Granger spoke. She was wearing a blue-edged uniform now, and the
blue-bronze-striped tie of her proper House.

“Harry,” said Hermione Granger, a terribly familiar voice that almost
brought tears to Harry’s eyes, “before I ask you all the questions, I’d
like to start by saying thank you very much for, um, whatever it is you
did. I mean it, really. Thank you.”

“Hermione,” Harry said, and swallowed. The phrase may I have permission
to hug you, which Harry had imagined using for his opening line, seemed
impossible to say. “Welcome back. Hold on while I put up some privacy
spells.” Harry took the Elder Wand out of his robes, got a book from his
pouch that he opened to a bookmark, and then carefully pronounced
“Hominem Revelio,” along with two other recently-acquired security
Charms that Harry had found himself barely able to cast if he wielded
the Elder Wand. It wasn’t much, but it was marginally better security
than just relying on Professor Vector.

“You have Dumbledore’s wand,” Hermione said. Her voice was hushed, and
sounded as loud as an avalanche in the still dawn air. “And you can use
it to cast fourth-year spells?”

Harry nodded, making a mental note to be more careful who else saw him
do that. “Is it okay if I hug you?”

Hermione moved lightly over to him; her movements were peculiarly swift,
more graceful than they’d been before. Her motions seemed to radiate an
air of something pure and untouched, reminding Harry again of how
peaceful Hermione had looked when she was sleeping on Voldemort’s altar—

Realization hit Harry like a ton of bricks, or at least a kilogram of
brick.

And Harry hugged Hermione, feeling how very alive she seemed. He felt
like crying, and suppressed it, because he didn’t know whether that was
just her aura affecting him or not.

Hermione’s arms around him were gentle, exceedingly light in their
pressure, as if she were being deliberately careful not to snap his body
in half like a used toothpick.

“So,” Hermione said, once Harry had let go of her. Her young face looked
very serious, as well as pure and innocent. “I didn’t tell the Aurors
you were there, or that it was Professor Quirrell and not You-Know-Who
who killed all the Death Eaters. Professor Flitwick only let them give
me one drop of Veritaserum, so I didn’t have to say. I just told them
the troll was the last thing I remembered.”

“Ah,” Harry said. He had somehow found himself staring at Hermione’s
nose instead of her eyes. “What do you think happened, exactly?”

“Well,” Hermione Granger said thoughtfully, “I got eaten by a troll,
which I’d frankly rather not do again, and then there was a really loud
bang and my legs were back, and I was lying on a stone altar in the
middle of a graveyard in a dark moonlit forest I’d never seen before,
with somebody’s severed hands clutched around my throat. So you see,
Mr Potter, finding myself in a situation that weird and dark and scary,
I wasn’t going to make the same mistake I did last time with Tracey. I
knew right away that it was you.”

Harry nodded. “Good call.”

“I said your name, but you didn’t answer,” said Hermione. “I sat up and
one of the bloody hands slid down over my shirt, leaving little bits of
flesh behind. I didn’t scream though, even when I looked around and saw
all the heads and bodies and realized what the smell was.” Hermione
stopped, took another deep breath. “I saw the skull masks and realized
that the dead people had been Death Eaters. I knew right away that the
Defence Professor had been there with you and killed them all, but I
didn’t notice Professor Quirrell’s body was also there. I didn’t realize
it was him even when I saw Professor Flitwick checking the body. He
looked… different, when he was dead.” Hermione’s voice became quieter.
She looked humbled somehow, in a way Harry couldn’t often remember
seeing. “They said David Monroe sacrificed his life to bring me back,
the same way your mother sacrificed herself for you, so that the Dark
Lord would explode again when he tried to touch me. I’m pretty sure
that’s not the whole truth, but… I’ve thought a lot of nasty things
about our Defence Professor that I never should’ve thought.”

“Um,” Harry said.

Hermione nodded solemnly, her hands clasped in front of her as though in
penitence. “I know you’re probably too nice to say the things to me that
you have a right to say now, so I’ll say them for you, Harry. You were
right about Professor Quirrell, and I was wrong. You told me so. David
Monroe was a little bit Dark and a whole lot Slytherin, and it was
childish of me to think that was the same thing as being evil.”

“Ah…” Harry said. This was very hard to say. “Actually, the rest of the
world doesn’t know this part, not even the Headmistress. But in point of
fact you were one hundred and twelve percent correct about him being
evil, and I’ll remember for future reference that although ‘Dark’ and
‘evil’ may not technically be the same thing, there’s a great big
statistical correlation.”

“Oh,” said Hermione, and fell silent again.

“You’re not saying that you told me so?” said Harry. His mental model of
Hermione was yelling: I TOLD YOU SO! DIDN’T I TELL YOU SO, MR POTTER?
DIDN’T I TELL YOU? PROFESSOR QUIRRELL IS EEEEVIIIL, I SAID, BUT YOU
DIDN’T LISTEN TO ME!

The actual Hermione just shook her head. “I know you cared about him a
lot,” she said softly. “Since I was right after all… I knew you’d
probably be hurting a lot after Professor Quirrell turned out to be
evil, and that it wouldn’t be a good time to say I told you so. I mean,
that’s what I decided when I was thinking that part through several
months earlier.”

Thank you, Miss Granger. Harry was glad she’d said that much, though, it
just wouldn’t have felt like Hermione otherwise.

“So, Mr Potter,” said Hermione Granger, tapping her fingers on her robe
at around thigh level. “After the medi-witch drew my blood, it stopped
hurting right away, and when I brushed away the little bit of blood on
my arm, I couldn’t find where the needle had poked me. I bent some of
the metal in my bed frame without trying hard, and though I haven’t had
a chance to test it yet, I feel like I should be able to run really
fast. My fingernails are pearly white and shiny even though I don’t
remember painting them. And my teeth look like that too, which, being
the daughter of dentists, makes me nervous. So it’s not that I’m
ungrateful, but just what exactly did you do?”

“Um,” Harry said. “And I’m expecting you’re also wondering why you’re
radiating an aura of purity and innocence?”

“I’m what?”

“That part wasn’t my idea. Honestly.” Harry’s voice went small. “Please
don’t kill me.”

Hermione Granger raised her hands in front of her face, staring somewhat
cross-eyed at her fingers. “Harry, are you saying… I mean, my radiating
innocence and being all fast and graceful and my teeth being pearly
white… is it alicorn my fingernails are made of?”

“Alicorn?”

“It’s the term for unicorn horn, Mr Potter.” Hermione Granger seemed to
be trying to nibble her fingernails, and not having much luck. “So, I
guess if you bring a girl back from the dead she ends up as, what did
Daphne call it, a Sparkling Unicorn Princess?”

“That’s not exactly what happened,” Harry said, though it was
frighteningly close.

Hermione took her finger out of her mouth, frowning at it. “I can’t bite
through it either. Mr Potter, did you consider the problems now that
it’s literally impossible for me to trim my fingernails and toenails?”

“The Weasley twins have a magical sword that should work,” Harry
volunteered.

“I think,” Hermione Granger said firmly, “that I would like to know the
whole story behind all this, Mr Potter. Because knowing you and knowing
Professor Quirrell, there was some sort of plan going on.”

Harry took a deep breath. Then he exhaled. “Sorry, it’s… classified. I
could tell you if you studied Occlumency, but… do you want to?”

“Do I want to study Occlumency?” Hermione said, looking slightly
surprised. “That’s at least a sixth-year thing, isn’t it?”

“I learned it,” Harry said. “I started with an unusual boost, but I
doubt that really mattered in the long run. I mean, I’m sure you could
learn calculus if you studied hard, regardless of what age Muggles
usually learn it. The question is, um.” Harry was having to control his
breathing. “The question is, do you still want to do… that kind of
stuff.”

Hermione turned, and looked at where the sky was lightening in the east.
“You mean,” she said quietly, “do I still want to be a hero now that
it’s earned me a horrible death that one time.”

Harry nodded, then said “Yes” because Hermione wasn’t turning toward
him, though the word felt blocked in his throat.

“I’ve been thinking about that,” Hermione said. “It was, in fact, an
exceptionally gruesome and painful death.”

“I, um. I did set some things up just in case you still wanted to be a
hero. There were some short windows of opportunity where I didn’t have
time to consult you, I couldn’t let you see me because I expected you to
be given Veritaserum later. But if you don’t like it, I can undo most of
what I did and you can just ignore the rest.”

Hermione nodded distantly. “Like making everyone think that I… Harry,
did I actually do anything to You-Know-Who?”

“No, that was all me, though please don’t tell anyone that. Just so you
know, that time the Boy-Who-Lived supposedly defeated Voldemort, on the
night of Halloween in 1981, that was Dumbledore’s victory and he let
everyone think it was me. So now I’ve defeated a Dark Lord once, and had
the credit for it once. It all balances out eventually, I guess.”

Hermione went on gazing to the east. “I’m not really comfortable with
this,” she said after a while. “People thinking I defeated the Dark Lord
Voldemort, when I haven’t done anything at all… oh, that’s the same
thing you went through, isn’t it?”

“Yeah. Sorry about inflicting that on you. I was… well, I was trying to
create a separate identity for you in people’s minds, I guess. There was
just the one opportunity and everything was sort of rushed and… I
realized afterwards that maybe I shouldn’t have, but it was too late.”
Harry cleared his throat. “Though, um. If you’re feeling like you want
to do something that’s actually worthy of the way people think about the
Girl-Who-Revived, um. I might have an idea for what you can do. Very
soon, if you want.”

Hermione Granger was giving him a look.

“But you don’t have to!” Harry said hastily. “You can just ignore this
whole thing and be the best student in Ravenclaw! If that’s what you
prefer.”

“Are you trying to use reverse psychology on me, Mr Potter?”

“No! Honestly!” Harry took a deep breath. “I’m trying not to decide your
life for you. I thought I saw, yesterday, I thought I saw what might
come next for you—but then I remembered how much of this year I’d spent
being a total idiot. I thought of some things Dumbledore said to me. I
realized it genuinely wasn’t my place to say. That you could do anything
you wanted with your life, and that above all, the choice had to be your
own. Maybe you don’t want to be a hero after this, maybe you want to
become a great magical researcher because that’s who Hermione Granger
really was all along, never mind what your fingernails are made out of
now. Or you could go to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America instead
of Hogwarts. I won’t lie and say I’d like that, but it really is up to
you.” Harry turned to the horizon and swept his hand wide, as though to
indicate all the world that lay beyond Hogwarts. “You can go anywhere
from here. You can do anything with your life. If you want to be a
wealthy sixty-year-old merman, I can make it happen. I’m serious.”

Hermione nodded slowly. “I’m curious about how you’d do that exactly,
but what I want isn’t to have things done for me.”

Harry sighed. “I understand. Um…” Harry hesitated. “I think… if it helps
you to know… in my case, things were being arranged for me a lot. By
Dumbledore, mostly, though Professor Quirrell too. Maybe the power to
earn your own way in life is itself something you have to earn.”

“Why, that sounds very wise,” Hermione said. “Like my parents paying for
me to go to university, so I can some day get my own job. Professor
Quirrell bringing me back to life as a Sparkling Unicorn Princess and
you telling everyone that I offed the Dark Lord Voldemort is just like
that, really.”

“I am sorry,” Harry said. “I know I should’ve done it differently, but…
I didn’t have much time to plan and I was exhausted and not really
thinking straight—”

“I’m grateful, Harry,” Hermione said, her voice softer now. “You’re
being too harsh on yourself, even. Please don’t take it so seriously
when I’m sarcastic to you. I don’t want to be the sort of girl who comes
back from the dead, and then starts complaining about which superpowers
she got and that her alicorn fingernails are the wrong shade of pearly
white.” Hermione had turned, was again gazing off at the east. “But,
Mr Potter… if I do decide that dying a horrible death isn’t enough to
make me rethink my life choices… not that I’m saying that just yet… then
what happens next?”

“I do my best to support you in your life choices,” Harry said firmly.
“Whatever they are.”

“You have a quest already lined up for me, I’m guessing. A nice safe
quest where there’s no chance of my getting hurt again.”

Harry rubbed his eyes, feeling tired inside. It was like he could hear
the voice of Albus Dumbledore inside his head. Forgive me, Hermione
Granger… “I’m sorry, Hermione. If you go down that path I’m going to
have to Dumbledore you, and not tell you some things. Manipulate you, if
only for a short while. I do believe there’s something you might be able
to do now, something real, something worthy of the way people are
thinking about the Girl-Who-Revived… that you might have a destiny,
even… but in the end that’s just a guess, I know a lot less than
Dumbledore did. Are you willing to risk the life you just got back?”

Hermione turned to look at him, her eyes widening in surprise. “Risk my
life?”

Harry didn’t nod, because that would have been outright lying. “Are you
willing to do that?” Harry said instead. “The quest that I think might
be your destiny—and no, I don’t know any specific prophecies, it’s just
a guess—involves literal descent-into-Hell type stuff.”

“I thought…” Hermione said. She sounded uncertain. “I thought for sure
that after this, you and Professor McGonagall wouldn’t… you know… let me
do anything the least bit dangerous ever again.”

Harry said nothing, feeling guilty about the false relationship credit
he was getting. It was in fact the case that Hermione was modelling him
with tremendous accuracy, and that if not for Hermione having a horcrux,
the surface of the planet Venus would have dropped to fractional-Kelvin
temperatures before Harry tried this.

“On a scale of zero to a hundred, how literal a descent into Hell are we
talking about here?” said Hermione. The girl now looked a bit worried.

Harry mentally calibrated his scales, remembering Azkaban. “I’d say
maybe eighty-seven?”

“This sounds like something I should do when I’m older, Harry. There’s a
difference between being a hero and being a complete lunatic.”

Harry shook his head. “I don’t think the risk would change much,” Harry
said, leaving aside the question of how much risk that really was, “and
it’s the sort of thing that’s better done sooner, if someone does it at
all.”

“And my parents don’t get a vote,” Hermione said. “Or do they?”

Harry shrugged. “We both know how they’d vote, and you can take that
into account if you like. Um, I said for Mr and Mrs Granger not to be
told yet that you’re alive. They’ll find out after you come back from
your mission, if you choose to accept it. That seems a bit… kinder on
your parents’ nerves, they just get the one pleasant surprise, instead
of having to worry about, um, stuff.”

“Why, that’s very thoughtful of you,” Hermione said. “It’s nice that
you’re so concerned about their feelings. May I think about this for a
few minutes, please?”

Harry gestured toward the cushion he’d set down opposite his own, and
Hermione moved over with fluid grace, and sat down to look out over the
castle-edge, still radiating peacefulness all over the place. They’d
really need to do something about that, maybe pay someone to invent an
Anti-Purity Potion.

“Do I have to decide without knowing what the mission is?” Hermione
asked.

“Oh hell no,” Harry said, thinking of a similar conversation before his
own trip to Azkaban. “This is the sort of thing you have to choose
freely if you do it at all. I mean that’s an actual mission requirement.
If you say that you still want to be a hero, I’ll tell you afterwards
about the mission—after you’ve had some time to eat and talk to people
and recover a bit—and you’ll decide then if it’s something you want to
do. And we’ll test in advance whether returning from death has allowed
you to cast the spell that normal wizards think is impossible, before
you go out.”

Hermione nodded, and fell back into silence.

The sky had lightened further by the time Hermione spoke again.

“I’m afraid,” Hermione said, almost in a whisper. “Not of dying again,
or not just that. I’m afraid I won’t be good enough. I had my chance to
defeat a troll, and instead I just died—”

“That was a troll empowered by Voldemort as a weapon, plus he sabotaged
all your magic items, just so you know.”

“I died. And you killed the troll, somehow, I think I remember that
part, it didn’t even slow you down.” Hermione wasn’t crying, no tears
glistened on her cheeks, she simply gazed off at the lightening sky
where the Sun would rise. “And then you brought me back from the dead as
a Sparkling Unicorn Princess. I know I couldn’t have done that. I’m
afraid I’ll never be able to do that, no matter what people think about
me.”

“This situation is where your journey begins, I think—” Harry paused.
“Excuse me, I shouldn’t be trying to influence your decision.”

“No,” Hermione whispered, still gazing at the hills below her. She
raised her voice. “No, Harry, I want to hear this.”

“Okay. Um. I think this is where you start. Everything that’s happened
up until now… it places you in the same place I started out in
September, when I’d thought of myself as just being a child prodigy
before, and then I found something new I needed to live up to. If you
weren’t comparing yourself to me and my,” adult cognitive patterns
copied off Tom Riddle, “dark side… then you’d be the brightest star of
Ravenclaw, who organized her own company to fight school bullies and
kept her sanity under assault by Voldemort, all while she was only
twelve years old. I looked it up, you got better grades than Dumbledore
did in his first year.” Leaving aside the Defence grade, because that
was just Voldemort being Voldemort. “Now you have some powers, and a
reputation to live up to, and the world is about to hand you some
difficult tasks. That’s where it all begins for you, the same as it
began for me. Don’t sell yourself short.” And then Harry shut his mouth
hard, because he was talking Hermione into it and that wasn’t right.
He’d at least managed to stop before the part where he asked, if she
couldn’t be a hero with all that going for her, who exactly she thought
was going to do it.

“You know,” Hermione said to the horizon, still not looking at Harry, “I
had a conversation like this with Professor Quirrell, once, about being
a hero. He was taking the other side, of course. But apart from that,
this is feeling like when he argued with me, somehow.”

Harry kept his lips pressed shut. Letting people make their own
decisions was hard, because it meant they were allowed to make the wrong
ones, but it still had to be done.

Hermione spoke carefully, the blue fringes of her Hogwarts uniform now
seeming brighter against her black robes as the sky all around them
became illuminated; there were no more stars in the west. “Professor
Quirrell told me, he said he’d been a hero once. But people weren’t
helping him enough, so he gave up and went off to do something more
interesting. I told Professor Quirrell that it hadn’t been right for him
to do that—what I actually said was ‘that’s horrible’. Professor
Quirrell said that, yes, maybe he was an awful person, but then what
about all the other people who’d never tried to be heroes at all? Were
they even worse than him? And I didn’t know what to say back. I mean,
it’s wrong to say that only Gryffindor-style heroes are good
people—though I think from Professor Quirrell’s perspective it was more
like only people with big ambitions had a right to breathe. And I didn’t
believe that. But it also seemed wrong to stop being a hero, to walk
away like he’d done. So I just stood there looking silly. But now I know
what I should’ve told him back then.”

Harry controlled his breathing.

Hermione stood up from her cushion, and turned to face Harry. “I’m done
with trying to be a heroine,” said Hermione Granger with the eastern sky
brightening around her. “I shouldn’t ever have gone along with that
entire line of thinking. There are just people who do what they can,
whatever they can. And there are also people who don’t even try to do
what they can, and yes, those people are doing something wrong. I’m not
ever going to try to be a hero again. I’m not going to think in heroic
terms if I can help it. But I won’t do any less than I can—or not a lot
less, I mean, I’m only human.” Harry had never understood what was
supposed to be mysterious about the Mona Lisa, but if he could have
taken a picture of Hermione’s resigned/joyous smile just then, he had
the sense that he could have looked at it for hours without
understanding, and that Dumbledore could have read through it at a
glance. “I won’t learn my lesson. I will be that stupid. I’ll go on
trying to do most of what I can, or at least some of what I can—oh, you
know what I mean. Even if it means risking my life again, so long as
it’s worth the risk and isn’t being, you know, actually stupid. That’s
my answer.” Hermione took a deep breath, her face resolute. “So, is
there something I can do?”

Harry’s throat was choked. He reached into his pouch, and signed
C-L-O-A-K since he couldn’t speak, and drew forth the fuliginous spill
of the Cloak of Invisibility, offering it to Hermione for the last time.
Harry had to force the words from his throat. “This is the True Cloak of
Invisibility,” Harry said in almost a whisper, “the Deathly Hallow
passed down from Ignotus Peverell to his heirs, the Potters. And now to
you—”

“Harry!” Hermione said. Her hands flew up across her chest, as though to
protect herself from the attacking gift. “You don’t have to do this!”

“I do have to do this. I’ve left the part of the path that lets me be a
hero, I can’t risk myself adventuring, ever. And you… can.” Harry
reached up the hand that wasn’t holding the Cloak, and wiped at his
eyes. “This was made for you, I think. For the person you’re going to
become.” A weapon to fight Death, in its form as the shadow of despair
that falls on human minds and drains away their hope for the future; you
will fight that, I expect, in more forms than just Dementors… “I do not
loan you, my Cloak, but give you, unto Hermione Jean Granger. Protect
her well for evermore.”

Slowly, Hermione reached out, and took hold of the Cloak, looking like
she was trying not to cry herself. “Thank you,” she whispered. “I think…
even though I’m done with the notion of heroing… I think that you always
were, from the day I met you, my mysterious old wizard.”

“And I think,” Harry said, his own throat half-closed, “even if you deny
that way of thinking now, I think that you were always destined to
become, from the very beginning of the story, the hero.” Who must
Hermione Granger become, what adult form must she take when she grows
up, to pass through Time’s narrow keyhole? I don’t know the answer to
that either, any more than I can imagine my own adult self. But her next
few steps ahead seem clearer than mine…

Harry let the Cloak go, and it passed from his hands to hers.

“It sings,” Hermione said. “It’s singing to me.” She reached up, and
wiped at her own eyes. “I can’t believe you did that, Harry.”

Harry’s other hand came out of his pouch, now bearing a long golden
chain, at the end of which dangled a closed golden shell. “And this is
your personal time machine.”

There was a pause, during which the planet Earth rotated a bit further
in its orbit.

“What?” said Hermione.

“A Time-Turner, they call it. Hogwarts has a stock they give out to some
students, I got one at the start of the year to treat my sleep disorder.
It lets the user go backwards in time, in up to six one-hour increments,
which I used to get six extra hours per day to study. And to vanish out
of Potions class and so on. Don’t worry, a Time-Turner can’t change
history or generate paradoxes that destroy the universe.”

“You were keeping up with me in lessons by studying six extra hours per
day using a time machine.” Hermione Granger seemed to be having trouble
with this concept for some unaccountable reason.

Harry made his face look puzzled. “Is there something odd about that?”

Hermione reached out and took the golden necklace. “I guess not by
wizard standards,” she said. For some reason her voice sounded rather
sharp. She arranged the chain around her neck, placing the hourglass
inside her shirt. “I do feel better now about keeping up with you,
though, so thank you for that.”

Harry cleared his throat. “Also, since Voldemort wiped out the House of
Monroe and then, so far as everyone believes, you avenged them by
killing Voldemort, I got Amelia Bones to railroad a bill through what’s
left of the Wizengamot, saying that Granger is now a Noble House of
Britain.”

“Excuse me?” said Hermione.

“That also makes you the only scion of a Noble House, which means that
to get your legal majority you just need to pass your Ordinary Wizarding
Levels, which I’ve set us up to do at the end of the summer so we’ll
have some time to study first. If you’re okay with that, I mean.”

Hermione Granger was making some sort of high-pitched noise that would,
in a less organic device, have indicated an engine malfunction. “I have
two months to study for my O.W.L.s?”

“Hermione, it’s a test designed so that most fifteen-year-olds can pass.
Ordinary fifteen-year-olds. We can get a passing grade with a low
third-year’s power level if we learn the right set of spells, and that’s
all we need for our majorities. Though you’ll need to come to terms with
getting Acceptable scores instead of your usual Outstandings.”

The high-pitched noises coming from Hermione Granger rose in pitch.

“Here’s your wand back.” Harry took it from his pouch. “And your
mokeskin pouch, I made sure they put back everything that was there when
you died.” That pouch Harry withdrew from a normal pocket of his robes,
since he was reluctant to put a bag of holding inside a bag of holding
no matter what was supposed to be harmless so long as both devices had
been crafted observing all safety precautions.

Hermione took her wand back, and then her pouch, the motions somehow
managing to look graceful even though her fingers were a bit shaky.

“Let’s see, what else… the oath you swore before to House Potter only
said you had to serve until ‘the day you die’, so you’re now free and
clear. And right after your death I got the Malfoys to publicly declare
that you were innocent of all charges in Draco’s attempted murder.”

“Why, thank you again, Harry,” said Hermione Granger. “That was very
nice of you, and them too, I guess.” She was repeatedly running her
fingers through her chestnut curls, as though, by organizing her hair,
she could restore sanity to her life.

“Last but not least, I had the goblins start the process of building a
vault in Gringotts for House Granger,” Harry said. “I didn’t put any
money into it, because that was something where I could wait and ask you
first. But if you’re going to be a superhero who goes around righting
certain kinds of wrongs, it will help a lot if people consider you to be
part of the upper social strata and, um, I think it may help if they
know you can afford lawyers. I can put in as much gold into your vault
as you want, since after Voldemort killed Nicholas Flamel, I ended up
holding the Philosopher’s Stone.”

“I feel like I ought to be fainting,” Hermione said in a high-pitched
voice, “only I can’t because of my superpowers and why do I have those
again?”

“If it’s all right with you, your Occlumency lessons will start on
Wednesday with Mr Bester, he can work with you once per day. Until then,
I think it might be better for the true origin of your powers not to
become known just because a Legilimens looks you in the eyes. I mean,
obviously there’s a normal magical explanation, nothing
super-supernatural, but people do tend to worship their own ignorance
and, well, I think the Girl-Who-Revived will be more effective if you
remain mysterious. Once you can keep out Mr Bester and beat Veritaserum,
I’ll tell you the entire backstory, I promise, including all the secrets
you can never tell anyone else.”

“That sounds lovely,” said Hermione Granger. “I’m quite looking forward
to it.”

“Though you’ll need to take an Unbreakable Vow to not do anything that
might destroy the world before I can tell you the more dangerous parts
of the story. I mean, I literally can’t tell you otherwise, because I
took an Unbreakable Vow myself. Is that okay?”

“Sure,” said Hermione. “Why shouldn’t it be okay? I wouldn’t want to
destroy the world anyhow.”

“Do you need to sit down again?” Harry said, feeling alarmed by the way
Hermione was swaying slightly, as though in rhythm with the words being
spoken.

Hermione Granger took several deep breaths. “No, I’m perfectly peachy,”
she said. “Is there anything else I should know about?”

“That was it. I’m finished, at least for now.” Harry paused. “I do
understand that you want to do things for yourself, not just have them
done for you. It’s just… you’re going to be a more serious kind of hero,
and the only sane choice is for me to give you all the advantages I can
manage—”

“I understand that quite well,” Hermione said. “Now that I’ve actually
lost a fight and died. I didn’t used to understand, but now I do.” A
breeze ruffled Hermione’s chestnut hair and stirred her robes, making
her look even more peaceful in the dawn air, as she raised one hand and
carefully clenched it into a fist. “If I’m going to do this, I’m going
to do it right. We need to measure how hard I can punch, and how high I
can jump, and figure out a safe way to test if my fingernails can kill
Lethifolds like a real unicorn’s horn, and I should practise using my
speed to dodge spells I can’t let hit me and… and it sounds like you
could maybe arrange for me to get Auror training, like from whoever
taught Susan Bones.” Hermione was smiling again now, a strange light in
her eyes that would’ve puzzled Dumbledore for hours and that Harry
understood immediately, not without a twinge of apprehension. “Oh! And I
want to start carrying Muggle weapons, maybe hidden so nobody knows I
have them. I thought of incendiary grenades when I was fighting the
troll, but I knew I couldn’t Transfigure them fast enough, even after I
stopped caring about obeying the rules.”

“I have the feeling,” Harry said, imitating Professor McGonagall’s
Scottish accent as best he could, “that I ought to be doing something
about this.”

“Oh, it’s much, much, much too late for that, Mr Potter. Say, can you
get me a bazooka? The rocket launcher, I mean, not the bubblegum? I bet
they won’t be expecting that from a young girl, especially if I’m
radiating an aura of innocence and purity.”

“All right,” Harry said calmly, “now you’re starting to scare me.”

Hermione paused from where she was experimenting with balancing on the
tip of her left shoe, her arm reaching in one direction and her right
leg stretched in the other, like a ballet dancer. “Am I? I was just
thinking that I didn’t see what I could do that a Ministry squad of Hit
Wizards couldn’t. They have broomsticks for mobility and spells that hit
harder than I possibly could.” She gracefully lowered her leg back down.
“I mean, now that I can try a few things without worrying about who’s
watching, I’m starting to think that I really really really like having
superpowers. But I still don’t see how I could win a fight that
Professor Flitwick couldn’t, not unless it involves me taking a Dark
Wizard by surprise.”

You can take risks other people shouldn’t, and try again with the
knowledge of what killed you. You can experiment with new spells, more
than anyone else could try without dying for sure. But Harry couldn’t
say any of that yet, so instead he said, “I think it’s okay to think
more about the future, not just what you can do this very minute.”

Hermione jumped high in the air, clicked her heels together three times
on the way down, and landed on her tiptoes, perfectly posed. “But you
said there was something I could do right away. Or were you just
testing?”

“That part is a special case,” Harry said, feeling the chill of the dawn
air against his skin. He was increasingly not looking forward to telling
super-Hermione that her Ordeal would involve facing her literal worst
nightmare, under conditions where all her newfound physical strength
would be useless.

Hermione nodded, then glanced to the east. At once she went to the side
of the roof and sat down, her feet dangling over the rooftop ledge.
Harry went to her side and sat down too, sitting cross-legged and
further back of the roof-edge.

In the distance, a brilliant tinge of red was rising above the hills to
the east of Hogwarts.

Watching the tip of the sunrise made Harry feel better, somehow. So long
as the Sun was in the sky, things were still all right on some level,
like his having not yet destroyed the Sun.

“So,” Hermione said. Her voice rose a bit. “Speaking of the future,
Harry. I had time to think about a lot of things while I was waiting in
St. Mungo’s, and… maybe it’s silly of me, but there’s a question I still
want to know the answer to. Do you remember the last thing we talked
about together? Before, I mean?”

“What?” Harry said blankly.

“Oh…” Hermione said. “It was two months ago for you… I guess you don’t
recall, then.”

And Harry remembered.

“Don’t panic!” Hermione said, as a sort of strangled half-gurgle came
from Harry’s throat. “I promise no matter what you say, I won’t burst
into tears and run away and get eaten by a troll again! I know it’s been
less than two days for me, but I think that dying has made a lot of
things I used to fret about seem much less important compared to what
I’ve been through!”

“Oh,” Harry said, his own voice now high-pitched. “That’s a good use of
a major trauma, I guess?”

“Only, see, I was still wondering about it, Harry, because for me it
hasn’t been very long at all since our last conversation, and we didn’t
finish talking which was admittedly all my own fault for losing control
of my emotions and then being eaten by a troll which I am definitely not
going to do again. I’ve been thinking I ought to reassure you that’s not
going to happen every time you say the wrong thing to a girl.” Hermione
was fidgeting, leaning from one side to the other where she sat,
slightly back and forth. “But, well, even most people who are in love
don’t do literally one hundredth of what you’ve done for me. So,
Mr Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, if it’s not love, I want to know
exactly what I am to you. You never said.”

“That’s a good question,” Harry said, controlling the rising panic. “Do
you mind if I think about it?”

Bit by bit, more of the searingly brilliant circle became visible beyond
the hills.

“Hermione,” Harry said when the Sun was halfway above the horizon, “did
you ever invent any hypotheses to explain my mysterious dark side?”

“Just the obvious one,” Hermione said, kicking her legs slightly over
the rooftop’s edge. “I thought maybe when You-Know-Who died right next
to you, he happened to give off the burst of magic that makes a ghost,
and some of it imprinted on your brain instead of the floor. But that
never felt right to me, like it was just a clever explanation that
wasn’t actually true, and it makes even less sense if You-Know-Who
didn’t really die that night.”

“Good enough,” Harry said. “Let’s imagine that scenario for now.” His
inner rationalist was looking back and face-palming again at how he’d
managed to not think about hypotheses like that one. It wasn’t true but
it was reasonable and Harry had never thought of any causal model that
concrete, just vaguely suspected a connection.

Hermione nodded. “You probably know this already, but I just thought I’d
say it to be sure: you’re not Voldemort, Harry.”

“I know. And that’s what you mean to me.” Harry took a breath, finding
it still painful to say aloud. “Voldemort… he wasn’t a happy person. I
don’t know if he was ever happy, a single day in his life.” He never
could cast the Patronus Charm. “That’s one reason his cognitive patterns
didn’t take me over, my dark side didn’t feel like a good place to be,
it didn’t get positively reinforced. Being friends with you means that
my life doesn’t have to go the way Voldemort’s did. And I was pretty
lonely before Hogwarts, although I didn’t realise it then, so… yeah. I
might’ve been slightly more desperate to bring you back from the dead
than the average boy my age would’ve been. Though I also maintain that
my decision was strictly normative moral reasoning, and if other people
care less about their friends, that’s their problem, not mine.”

“I see,” Hermione said softly. She hesitated. “Harry, don’t take this
the wrong way, but I’m not one hundred percent comfortable with that.
It’s a big responsibility that I didn’t choose, and I don’t think it’s
healthy for you to lay it on just one person.”

Harry nodded. “I know. But there’s more to the point I’m trying to make.
There was a prophecy about my vanquishing Voldemort—”

“A prophecy? There was a prophecy about you? Seriously, Harry?”

“Yeah, I know. Anyway, part of it went, ‘And the Dark Lord shall mark
him as his equal, but he shall have power the Dark Lord knows not.’ What
would you guess that meant?”

“Hmmm,” Hermione said. Her fingers tapped thoughtfully on the roof’s
stone. “Your mysterious dark side is You-Know-Who’s mark on you that
made you his equal. The power he knew not… was the scientific method,
right?”

Harry shook his head. “That’s what I thought too at first—that it was
going to be Muggle science, or the methods of rationality. But…” Harry
exhaled. The sun had now fully risen above the hills. This felt
embarrassing to say, but he was going to say it anyway. “Professor
Snape, who originally heard the prophecy—yes, that’s also a thing that
happened—Professor Snape said he didn’t think it could just be science,
that the ‘power the Dark Lord knows not’ needed to be something more
alien to Voldemort than just that. Even if I think of it in terms of
rationality, well, it turns out that the person Voldemort really was,”
why, Professor Quirrell, why, the thought still stabbing sickness at
Harry’s heart, “he’d have been able to learn the methods of rationality
too, if he read the same science papers I did. Except, maybe, for one
last thing…” Harry drew a breath. “At the end of all of it, during my
final showdown with Voldemort, he threatened to put my parents, and my
friends, into Azkaban. Unless I came up with interesting secrets to tell
him, one person saved per secret. But I knew I couldn’t find enough
secrets to save everyone. And in the moment that I saw no way at all
left to save everyone… that’s when I actually started thinking. Maybe
for the first time in my life, I started thinking. I thought faster than
Voldemort, even though he was older than me and smarter, because…
because I had a reason to think. Voldemort had a drive to be immortal,
he strongly preferred not to die, but that wasn’t a positive desire, it
was fear, and Voldemort made mistakes because of that fear. I think the
power that Voldemort knew not… was that I had something to protect.”

“Oh, Harry,” Hermione said gently. She hesitated. “Is that what I am to
you, then? The thing that you protect?”

“No, I mean, the whole reason I’m telling you this, is that Voldemort
wasn’t threatening to put you in Azkaban. Even if he’d taken over the
whole world, you’d have been fine. He’d already made a binding promise
not to harm you, because of, um, because of reasons. So in my moment of
ultimate crisis, when I reached deep down and found the power Voldemort
knew not, I did it to protect everyone except you.”

Hermione considered this, a slow smile spreading over her face. “Why,
Harry,” she said. “That’s the least romantic thing I’ve ever heard.”

“You’re welcome.”

“No, really, it does help,” Hermione said. “I mean, it makes the whole
thing much less stalkery.”

“I know, right?”

The two of them shared a companionable nod, both of them looking more
relaxed now, and watched the sunrise together.

“I’ve been thinking,” Harry said, his own voice going soft, “about the
alternate Harry Potter, the person I might have been if Voldemort hadn’t
attacked my parents.” If Tom Riddle hadn’t tried to copy himself onto
me. “That other Harry Potter wouldn’t have been as smart, I guess. He
probably wouldn’t have studied much Muggle science, even if his mother
was a Muggle-born. But that other Harry Potter would’ve had… the
capacity for warmth, that he inherited from James Potter and Lily Evans,
he would’ve cared about other people and tried to save his friends, I
know that would have been true, because that’s something that Lord
Voldemort never did, you see…” Harry’s eyes were watering. “So that part
must be the remnant.”

The Sun was well above the horizon now, the golden light illuminating
both of them, casting long shadows off the other side of the rooftop
platform.

“I think you’re just fine the way you are,” Hermione said. “I mean, that
other Harry Potter might’ve been a nice boy, maybe, but it sounds like I
would’ve had to do all his thinking for him.”

“Going by heredity, alter-Harry would have been in Gryffindor like his
parents, and the two of you wouldn’t have become friends. Though James
Potter and Lily Evans were the Head Boy and Head Girl of Hogwarts back
in their day, so he wouldn’t have been that bad.”

“I can just imagine it,” Hermione said. “Harry James Potter, Sorted into
Gryffindor, aspiring Quidditch player—”

“No. Just no.”

“Remembered by history as the sidekick of Hermione Jean Granger, who’d
send out Mr Potter to get into trouble for her, and then solve the
mystery from the library by reading books and using her incredible
memory.”

“You’re really enjoying this alternate universe, aren’t you.”

“Maybe he’d be best mates with Ron Weasley, the smartest boy in
Gryffindor, and they’d fight side-by-side in my army in Defence class,
and afterwards help each other with their homework—”

“Okay, enough, this is starting to creep me out.”

“Sorry,” Hermione said, though she was still smiling to herself,
appearing rapt in some private vision.

“Apology accepted,” Harry said dryly.

The Sun rose a little further in the sky.

After a while, Hermione spoke. “Do you suppose we’ll fall in love with
each other later on?”

“I don’t know any better than you do, Hermione. But why does it have to
be about that? Seriously, why does it always have to be about that?
Maybe when we’re older we’ll fall in love, and maybe we won’t. Maybe
we’ll stay in love, and maybe we won’t.” Harry turned his head slightly,
the Sun was hot on his cheek and he wasn’t wearing sunscreen. “No matter
how it goes, we shouldn’t try to force our lives into a pattern. I think
when people try to force patterns onto this sort of thing, that’s when
they end up unhappy.”

“No forced patterns?” Hermione said. Her eyes had taken on a mischievous
look. “That sounds like a more complicated way of saying no rules. Which
I guess seems a lot more reasonable to me than it would’ve at the start
of this year. If I’m going to be a Sparkling Unicorn Princess and have
my own time machine, I might as well give up on rules, I suppose.”

“I’m not saying that rules are always bad, especially when they actually
fit people, instead of them being blindly imitated like Quidditch. But
weren’t you the one who rejected the ‘hero’ pattern in favour of just
doing the things she could?”

“I suppose so.” Hermione turned her head again to gaze down at the
grounds below Hogwarts, for the Sun was too bright to look at
now—though, Harry thought, Hermione’s retinas would always heal now, it
was safe for her alone to look directly into the light. “You said,
Harry, that you thought I was always destined to be the hero. I’ve been
considering, and I suspect you’re completely wrong. If this had been
meant to be, things would’ve been a lot easier all round. Just doing the
things you can do—you have to make that happen, you have to choose it,
over and over again.”

“That might not conflict with your being a destined hero,” Harry said,
thinking of compatibilist theories of free will, and prophecies that he
must not look upon in order to fulfil. “But we can talk about that
later.”

“You have to choose it,” Hermione repeated. She pushed herself up on her
hands, then popped herself backwards and onto the rooftop, rising to her
feet in a smooth motion. “Just like I’m choosing to do this.”

“No kissing!” Harry said, scrambling to his feet and preparing to dodge;
though the realization came to him that the Girl-Who-Revived would be
much, much faster.

“I won’t try to kiss you again, Mr Potter. Not until you ask me, if you
ever do. But there are all these warm feelings bubbling up inside me and
I feel like I might burst if I don’t do something, though it does now
occur to me that it’s unhealthy if girls don’t know any way of
expressing gratitude to boys besides kissing them.” Hermione took out
her wand and offered it crosswise, in the position she’d used to swear
her oath of fealty to House Potter before the Wizengamot.

“Oh hell no,” Harry said. “Do you realise what it took to get you out of
that oath last time—”

“Don’t go jumping to conclusions, you. I wasn’t about to swear fealty to
your House again. You’ve got to start trusting me to be sensible if
you’re going to be my mysterious young wizard. Now please hold out your
wand.”

Slowly, Harry took out the Elder Wand and crossed it with Hermione’s
ten-and-three-quarter-inches of vine wood, forcing down a last worry
about her choosing the wrong thing. “Can you at least not say anything
about ‘until death takes me’, because did I mention I have the
Philosopher’s Stone now? Or anything about ‘the end of the world and its
magic’? I’m a lot more nervous around phrases like that than I used to
be.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Upon a roof floored in square stony tiles, the brilliant morning Sun
blazes down upon two not-really-children-any-more, both in blue-fringed
black robes, facing each other across crossed wands. One has brown eyes
beneath chaotic chestnut curls, and radiates an aura of strength and
beauty that is not magic only; the other has green eyes under glasses,
with messy black hair above a recently inflamed scar. Below, a stone
tower nobody remembers seeing from ground level stretches downwards into
the broad base of the castle Hogwarts. Far beneath them are visible the
green hills, and the lake. In the distance a huge red-and-black line of
railcars and an engine, appearing tiny from this height, a train neither
Muggle nor fully magical. The sky is nearly unclouded, but for faint
tinges of orange-white where wisps of moisture reflect the sunlight. A
light breeze carries the crisp chill of dawn, and the dampness of
morning; but the huge blazing golden globe is now risen high above the
horizon, and its incandescence casts warmth on everything it touches.

“Well, maybe after this you’ll be less nervous,” the hero says to her
enigmatic wizard. She knows she doesn’t know the whole story, but the
fragment of truth that she does hold shines bright like sunlight within
her, casting warmth on her insides the way the Sun warms her face. “I do
choose this, now.”

Upon my life and magic I swear friendship to Harry Potter,
To help him and trust in him,
To stand with him and, um, stand by him,
And sometimes go where he can’t go,
’Till the day that death takes me for real, if it ever does, I mean,
And if the world or its magic ends, we’ll deal with that together.

E. Y.: This is the end of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality.

I will write no sequel myself; I have said what I set out to say, and it
is done.
You have my enthusiastic consent to write within this universe yourself,
if you wish.

I am happy to have written this book for you,
and I am honored that you read it.
Many of you have declared yourselves my friends,
and that knowledge is shining warmly inside me.

I wish for you to live long, and prosper
EXPECTO PATRONUM!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
